SOURCE: Research Roadmap on Grid-Forming Inverters
AUTHOR: Lin, Eto, Johnson et al. (NREL, LBNL), 2020, NREL/TP-5D00-73476
URL: https://docs.nlr.gov/docs/fy21osti/73476.pdf
RAW FILE: raw/nrel_gfm_roadmap.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-24
PAGES: 60
USED FOR: Item 54. Grid-following PV cannot hold an island; grid-forming sources can.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== outline (PDF bookmarks, p. = PDF page) ===
List of Acronyms .. p.4
Acknowledgments .. p.5
Executive Summary .. p.6
Table of Contents .. p.10
List of Figures .. p.-1
List of Tables .. p.-1
Introduction .. p.12
1 Power System Stability Concepts .. p.16
2 Overview of Grid-Following and Grid-Forming Controllers for Inverter-Based Generation .. p.19
3 Inverter Control State-of-the-Art and Open Research Questions .. p.24
4 Roadmap for the Development and Deployment of Grid-Forming Inverters .. p.42
5 Conclusions .. p.50
References .. p.52

=== page 1 ===
Research Roadmap on
Grid-Forming Inverters
Yashen Lin,1 Joseph H. Eto,2 Brian B. Johnson,3
Jack D. Flicker,4 Robert H. Lasseter,5 Hugo N. Villegas Pico,1
Gab-Su Seo,1 Brian J. Pierre,4 and Abraham Ellis4
With editing and support from Hariharan Krishnaswami6,
Jeremiah Miller6, and Guohui Yuan6
1National Renewable Energy Laboratory
2Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
3University of Washington
4Sandia National Laboratories
5University of Wisconsin
6U.S. Department of Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office

=== page 2 ===
NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy
Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy
Operated by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory (NREL) at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308
National Renewable Energy Laboratory
15013 Denver West Parkway
Golden, CO 80401
303-275-3000 - www.nrel.gov
Technical Report
NREL/TP-5D00-73476
November 2020
Research Roadmap on Grid-Forming
Inverters
Yashen Lin,1 Joseph H. Eto,2 Brian B. Johnson,3
Jack D. Flicker,4 Robert H. Lasseter,5 Hugo N. Villegas
Pico,1 Gab-Su Seo,1 Brian J. Pierre,4 and Abraham Ellis4
1 National Renewable Energy Laboratory
2 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
3 University of Washington
4 Sandia National Laboratories
5 University of Wisconsin
6 U.S. Department of Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office
Suggested Citation
Lin, Yashen, Joseph H. Eto, Brian B. Johnson, Jack D. Flicker, Robert H. Lasseter, Hugo
N. Villegas Pico, Gab-Su Seo, Brian J. Pierre, and Abraham Ellis. 2020. Research
Roadmap on Grid-Forming Inverters. Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy
Laboratory. NREL/TP-5D00-73476. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy21osti/73476.pdf.

=== page 3 ===

NOTICE
This work was authored in part by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, operated by Alliance for Sustainable
Energy, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308. Funding
provided by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Solar Energy
Technologies Office. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the views of the DOE or the U.S.
Government.
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable
Energy Laboratory (NREL) at www.nrel.gov/publications.
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) reports produced after 1991
and a growing number of pre-1991 documents are available
free via www.OSTI.gov.
Cover Photos by Dennis Schroeder: (clockwise, left to right) NREL 51934, NREL 45897, NREL 42160, NREL 45891, NREL 48097,
NREL 46526.
NREL prints on paper that contains recycled content.

=== page 4 ===
ii
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
List of Acronyms
AGC
automatic generation control
dq
direct quadrature
FERC
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
FRT
fault ride-through
IEEE
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
IRPTF
Inverter-Based Resource Performance Task Force
MIGRATE
Massive InteGRATion of power Electronic devices
NERC
North American Electric Reliability Corporation
Omega
frequency

P
real power
PLL
phase-locked loop
PV
photovoltaic
Q
reactive power
V
voltage
VAR
volt ampere reactive

=== page 5 ===
iii
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Acknowledgments
We thank Scott Manson, David Porter, Thibault Prevost, Mariko Shirazi, Vijay Vittal, Dennis
Woodford, and Donny Zimmanck for reviewing an earlier draft of this roadmap. We also thank
Dan Ton, Kerry Cheung, Pengwei Du, and Julia Matevosjana for their insightful feedback.

=== page 6 ===
iv
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Executive Summary
Managing the stability of today's electric power systems is based on decades of experience with
the physical properties and control responses of large synchronous generators, usually with the
size of hundreds to even thousands of megawatts. Today's electric power systems are rapidly
transitioning toward having an increasing proportion of generation from nontraditional sources,
such as wind and solar (among others), as well as energy storage devices, such as batteries. In
addition to the variable nature of many renewable generation sources (because of the weather-
driven nature of their fuel supplies), these newer sources vary in size-from residential-scale
rooftop systems (a few kilowatts) to utility-scale power plants (hundreds to even thousands of
megawatts)-and they are interconnected throughout the electric grid both from within the
distribution system and directly to the high-voltage transmission system. Most important for our
purposes, many of these new resources are connected to the power system through power
electronic inverters rather than spinning electromechanical machines. Collectively, we refer to
these generation technologies as inverter-based resources.1
This report is intended to provide a comprehensive analysis of the challenges in integrating
inverter-based resources and offer recommendations on potential technology pathways to inform
the academic community, industry, and government research organizations. Although the focus
of this roadmap is on grid-forming inverter controls, their impact on grid stability, and evaluating
crucial system interactions (e.g., protection), we recognize that the large interconnections in
North America will comprise both electromechanical and inverter-based resources (in this
roadmap, sometimes called a hybrid power system). More importantly, we further recognize that
inverter-based resources will comprise both grid-forming resources and other forms of control,
such as grid-following resources. Transitioning to a grid with more inverter-based resources
poses major challenges because the operation of future power systems must be based on a
combination of the physical properties and control responses of traditional, large synchronous
generators as well as those of numerous and diverse inverter-based resources (see Figure ES-1).
These challenges stem from the recognition that there is no established body of experience for
operating hybrid power systems with significant amounts of inverter-based resources at the scale
of today's North American interconnections.

1 Although the focus of this roadmap is on inverter-based generation, it is also applicable to inverter-based energy
storage. The details of grid-forming storage applications-such as during charging, discharging, or state of charge-
are beyond the scope of this roadmap.

=== page 7 ===
v
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Figure ES-1. The present power system (a) has historically been dominated by synchronous
generators having large rotational inertia. Future systems (b) will have a significant fraction of
inverter-based generation resources. This implies a need for next-generation grid-forming
controllers that ensure grid stability at any level of penetration with inverter-based resources.
This research roadmap is intended to fill the knowledge gap by providing a system view of grid-
forming inverter-based resource controls and their impact on grid stability, which we believe is
central to meeting some of the challenges to operating the future North American electric power
system. This includes the roles and requirements of grid-forming inverter-based resources-
including solar photovoltaics, wind generators, and energy storage. For this roadmap, we focus
on a specific family of grid-forming inverter control approaches that do not rely on an external
voltage source (i.e., no phase-locked loop) and that can share load without explicit
communications. Although the roadmap is focused narrowly on system challenges for grid-
forming controls and power system stability, including interactions with protection, we hope it
serves as a foundational element for future system-of-systems roadmapping needed in a broader
grid modernization effort with increasing deployments of inverter-based resources.
The roadmap first introduces formal definitions for the grid stability topics and then describes the
differences between grid-forming and traditional grid-following control approaches for inverter-
based resources. The core of the roadmap consists of a review of current research and an outline
of research needs related to five grid-forming inverter topics:
- Frequency control
- Voltage control
- System protection
- Fault ride-through and voltage recovery
- Modeling and simulation.
The review both delineates contemporary advances and highlights open research questions that
must be addressed to enable the widespread adoption of inverter-based resources across the grid.
Feedback from industry on these research questions is incorporated, including discussions during
the Workshop on Grid-forming Inverters for Low-inertia Power Systems.2 The workshop

2 The Workshop on Grid-forming Inverters for Low-Inertia Power Systems was held at the University of
Washington in Seattle on April 29-30 2019. Presentations and video are available at
https://lowinertiagrids.ece.uw.edu/.

=== page 8 ===
vi
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
included industry presentations and discussion of ongoing research, technology gaps, and
piloting needs.
This roadmap concludes by offering a multiyear perspective on the gradual field validation of
grid-forming inverters (see Figure ES-2). This perspective recognizes that the scale and scope of
the types of power systems that inverters will be called on to provide grid-forming services will
and should begin modestly. Specifically, this roadmap recognizes that inverter controls today are
predominantly grid-following and that future power systems will involve a mix of inverter-based
resources with both grid-following and grid-forming control capabilities. Growth over time will
depend on how well grid-forming inverters perform and what advantages they bring as
penetration levels (instantaneous and average) of inverter-based resources increases. This
recognition, in turn, establishes a natural sequence of priorities for the research questions that
must be addressed.

Figure ES-2. (a) Total annual and instantaneous inverter-based wind and solar generation based
on power system size

=== page 9 ===
vii
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Figure ES-2. (b) Incorporating grid-forming controls into the electric grid will take place gradually
after key functionalities have been demonstrated and confidence has been gained by operating
them in smaller microgrids and island power systems.
Following this multiyear perspective, the roadmap offers short descriptions of two specific near-
term research priorities: the review of regulatory and technical standards and the development of
advanced modeling techniques. These priorities are foundational. We recommend immediate
pursuit of them in parallel with and in direct support of the research outlined by our multiyear
perspective.

=== page 10 ===
viii
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Table of Contents
Introduction ................................................................................................................................................. 1
1
Power System Stability Concepts....................................................................................................... 5
2
Overview of Grid-Following and Grid-Forming Controllers for Inverter-Based Generation ........ 8
2.1
Grid-Following Controllers ......................................................................................................... 10
2.2
Grid-Forming Controllers ........................................................................................................... 11
3
Inverter Control State-of-the-Art and Open Research Questions ................................................. 13
3.1
Frequency Control ....................................................................................................................... 13
3.1.1
Classic Frequency Control ............................................................................................. 13
3.1.2
Frequency Dynamics of Low-Inertia Systems ............................................................... 14
3.1.3
Inverter-Based Resources for Frequency Control .......................................................... 15
3.1.4
Research Questions ........................................................................................................ 17
3.2
Voltage Control ........................................................................................................................... 18
3.2.1
Research Questions ........................................................................................................ 20
3.3
System Protection ........................................................................................................................ 20
3.3.1
Transition to Distribution Bidirectional Power Flow ..................................................... 22
3.3.2
Negative-Sequence Fault Current .................................................................................. 23
3.3.3
Out-of-Step and Power Swing Blocking Protection ....................................................... 23
3.4
Fault Ride-Through Capability and Power System Voltage Recovery ....................................... 25
3.5
Modeling and Simulation Approaches ........................................................................................ 28
4
Roadmap for the Development and Deployment of Grid-Forming Inverters ............................... 31
4.1
From Microgrids to Isolated Power Systems to Continental-Scale Power Systems ................... 33
4.2
The Need to Establish a Technical Standards Environment for Grid-Forming Inverters ........... 36
4.3
The Need to Begin Developing Appropriate Models for Existing Simulation Tools as Well as
Enhanced Modeling and Simulation Tools ................................................................................. 38
5
Conclusions ........................................................................................................................................ 39
References ................................................................................................................................................. 41

=== page 11 ===
ix
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
List of Figures
Figure ES-1. The present power system (a) has historically been dominated by synchronous generators
having large rotational inertia. Future systems (b) will have a significant fraction of inverter-
based generation resources. This implies a need for next-generation grid-forming controllers
that ensure grid stability at any level of penetration with inverter-based resources. ............... v
Figure ES-2. (a) Total annual and instantaneous inverter-based wind and solar generation based on power
system size .............................................................................................................................. vi
Figure ES-2. (b) Incorporating grid-forming controls into the electric grid will take place gradually after
key functionalities have been demonstrated and confidence has been gained by operating
them in smaller microgrids and island power systems. .......................................................... vii
Figure 1. The power system (a) has historically been dominated by synchronous generators having large
rotational inertia with a relatively modest amount of inverter-based resources, such as PV,
wind, and batteries. Future systems (b) will have a significant fraction of generation
interfaced with power electronics and might be dominated by inverters. This implies a need
for next-generation grid-forming controllers that ensure grid stability at any level of
penetration with inverter-based resources. ............................................................................... 1
Figure 2. The various timescales and control functions that comprise power system stability. Classic
notions for conventional systems are shown on the bottom. We highlight the various
phenomena that must be considered as systems transition to inverter-based generation. This
document is restricted in scope to the fast-timescale issues enclosed in green. (AGC refers to
"automatic generation control.") .............................................................................................. 5
Figure 3. General structure of an inverter system with closed-loop control ................................................. 9
Figure 4. Functional diagrams of grid-following and grid-forming inverters. Grid-following inverters
mimic current sources at their output terminals, whereas grid-forming inverters act like
voltage sources whose output abides by droop laws. ............................................................... 9
Figure 5. Decreasing total system inertia for the Eastern Interconnection ................................................. 14
Figure 6. FRT envelopes (NERC 2016) ...................................................................................................... 26
Figure 7. Off-nominal frequency capability envelope (NERC 2016) ......................................................... 27
Figure 8. Key steps for maturing grid-forming inverter technologies ........................................................ 31
Figure 9. Total annual and instantaneous inverter-based wind and solar generation based on power system
size ......................................................................................................................................... 32
Figure 10. Multiyear systems integration activities for grid-forming inverter-based resources ................. 33
Figure 11. Incorporating grid-forming (GFM) controls into the bulk electric grid will take place gradually
after key functionalities have been demonstrated and confidence has been gained by
operating them in smaller microgrids and island power systems. .......................................... 35

List of Tables
Table 1. Comparison of Grid-Following and Grid-Forming Controls ........................................................ 10

=== page 12 ===
1
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Introduction
Managing the stability of today's electric power systems is based on decades of experience with
the physical properties and control responses of large synchronous generators.3 Today's electric
power systems are rapidly transitioning toward having an increasing proportion of generation
from nontraditional sources, such as wind and solar (among others), as well as energy storage
devices, such as batteries. In addition to the variable nature of many renewable generation
sources (because of the weather-driven nature of their fuel supply), these newer sources vary in
size-from residential-scale rooftop systems to utility-scale power plants-and they are
interconnected throughout the electric grid, both from within the distribution system and directly
to the high-voltage transmission system. Most important for our purposes, many of these new
resources are connected to the power system through power electronic inverters.4 Collectively,
we refer to these sources as inverter-based resources.
This report is intended to provide a comprehensive analysis of the challenges in integrating
inverter-based resources and offer recommendations on potential technology pathways to inform
the academic community, industry, and government research organizations. The operation of
future power systems must be based on a combination of the physical properties and control
responses of traditional, large synchronous turbine generators as well as those of numerous and
diverse inverter-based resources (see Figure 1). The major challenges stem from the recognition
that there is no established body of experience for operating hybrid power systems with
significant amounts of inverter-based resources at the scale of today's North American
interconnections.

Figure 1. The power system (a) has historically been dominated by synchronous generators
having large rotational inertia with a relatively modest amount of inverter-based resources, such
as PV, wind, and batteries. Future systems (b) will have a significant fraction of generation
interfaced with power electronics and might be dominated by inverters. This implies a need for
next-generation grid-forming controllers that ensure grid stability at any level of penetration with
inverter-based resources.

3 In an AC electric power system, synchronization is the process of matching the speed and frequency of a generator
or other generation sources to an operating grid.
4 Power electronics are solid-state electronics for the control and conversion of electric power. Power electronics
conversion can be classified according to the type of the input and output power: AC to DC (rectifier), DC to AC
(inverter), DC to DC (converter), AC to AC (cycloconverter).

=== page 13 ===
2
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
To operate such large hybrid power systems, the assumptions that underlie current generation
design and control approaches must be reexamined and, where appropriate, modified or even
redefined to take explicit account of the new challenges and opportunities presented by these
inverter-based forms of generation. We should expect that new control approaches, operational
procedures, protection, and planning tools and processes will be required.
Synchronous generators regulate their terminal voltages and respond to a change in grid
frequency through a change in its power output; these are traditionally referred to as generator-
excitation and turbine-governor controls, respectively. These types of primary, secondary, and
tertiary controls and voltage control are well-known. We refer to these generation sources as
grid-forming. Today's inverter-based generation sources generally use phase-locked loops
(PLLs), which rely on externally generated voltages by synchronous machines to operate
(Yazdani and Iravani 2010; Golestan et al. 2017). We refer to these types of inverter-based
generation as grid-following inverters. In case of unintended separation of the power system,
islanded systems comprising only these types of inverters will not be capable of functioning
autonomously. Similarly, after a blackout, grid-following inverters cannot support the restoration
process of the bulk power system unless conventional generators with black-start capability5 are
present. Also, although this issue is currently being addressed by industry, some of today's
inverters might disconnect and/or cease operation as a result of transmission faults, and this
behavior is contrary to the desired behavior of resources connected to the bulk power system
during a severe event (North American Electric Reliability Corporation [NERC] 2017b).6 The
performance of PLL-based inverters on the distribution system has also been a major topic of
discussion and has resulted in updated equipment standards that are being deployed-for
example, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) updated Standard 1547
(IEEE1547-2018).
These activities have inspired an investigation into other available control methods for power
electronic inverters for the seamless integration of renewable energy and battery energy storage
into electric grids. These alternative methods are referred to generically as grid-forming controls
because the goal is to provide functionalities that are traditionally provided by synchronous
machinery. Stated differently, the objective is to engineer plug-and-play (Sadamoto et al. 2019)
grid-forming controls that can function in both high-inertia grids as well as future low-inertia
grids where inverters might dominate. Inverters must function in a system that might evolve over
time. For this roadmap, we focus on a specific family of inverter control approaches that does not
rely on an external voltage source (no PLL) and that can share load without explicit
communications.7 Early work on this topic started in the 1990s (Chandorkar, Divan, and Adapa
1993; Lasseter 1998; Katiraei, Iravani, and Lehn 2005); however, these controls were originally
designed to be deployed in power systems with small footprints (e.g., microgrids) and on small

5 Black-start generators are the key grid-forming generators when restoring the system from a blackout. As the
black-start is successful, other generators then synchronize to the grid before injecting current. Grid-forming,
inverter-based resources will need to have similar capabilities during normal and abnormal operations as well as
black starts.
6 Efforts are currently underway to require improved ride-through capability by inverter-based generation (and
storage).
7 We recognize that there are other means of implementing grid-forming control functions (including continued
reliance on PLLs), but these are not the focus of this roadmap.

=== page 14 ===
3
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
islands (such as Kauai, Hawaii). Today, grid-forming controls are being considered for
deployment in bulk power systems because of their ability to enhance the stability of these grids
in regions or during times when loads are largely being served by inverter-based resources.
To this end, this research roadmap focuses on this emerging topic, which we believe is central to
meeting some of the challenges to operating the future North American electric power system.
This includes the role of and requirements for grid-forming inverter-based resources, including
solar photovoltaics (PV), wind generators, and energy storage. This roadmap leverages insight
gained from the project team's past research and research funded by the U.S. Department of
Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office on virtual oscillator grid-forming controls and
assessing grid-instability points for hybrid systems (grid-following, grid-forming, and traditional
synchronous generation). This roadmap also builds on related international efforts, such as the
European Union's programs on the Massive InteGRATion of power Electronic devices
(MIGRATE)8 and the RE-SERVE9 project, Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation effort, as well as the National Grid UK effort. The purpose of this
research roadmap is to outline specific research directions appropriate for inclusion in an
eventual U.S. national research-and-development program on grid-forming inverter-based forms
of generation and storage that can enhance the stability of future electric power systems.
Although the focus of this roadmap is on grid-forming controls and some system interactions
(e.g., protection), we recognize that the large interconnections in North America will comprise
both electromechanical and inverter-based resources (sometimes called a hybrid power system in
this roadmap). More importantly, we further recognize that inverter-based resources will
comprise both grid-forming resources and other forms of control, such as grid-following
resources.
This roadmap is organized as follows. In Section 1, we introduce formal definitions for the grid-
stability topics addressed by this roadmap and clarify the related topics that are outside the scope
of this roadmap. In Section 2, we discuss the differences between grid-forming and grid-
following control approaches for inverter-based resources and the importance of focusing on
grid-forming approaches. In Section 3, we review relevant research and outline research needs
related to five grid-forming inverter topics:
- Frequency control
- Voltage control
- System protection
- Fault ride-through (FRT) and voltage recovery
- Modeling and simulation.
Power system stability, protection, ride-through, and the ability to model and simulate these
complex systems are foundational technical issues, and these characteristics are central to our
discussion of grid-forming inverters.

8 See https://www.h2020-migrate.eu/.
9 See http://www.re-serve.eu/.

=== page 15 ===
4
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
In Section 4, we introduce a roadmap that provides an outline of an evolutionary vision of grid-
forming inverters playing an increasingly greater role within power systems and the consequent
nearest term priorities for research to ease these transitions.
This roadmap focuses on these outlined technical research topics to ensure future electric power
system stability. Feedback from industry for these research questions included their discussion as
part of a Workshop on Grid-forming Inverters for Low-Inertia Power Systems held at the
University of Washington.10 The workshop included industry presentations and discussion of
ongoing research, technology gaps, and piloting needs. Note that many related technical areas are
outside the scope of this roadmap but would need evaluation in future roadmapping efforts. This
includes power electronics device or component design, distribution system engineering and
operations for grid-forming inverter controls, sensing and communications systems, load control,
high-voltage DC, system costs analysis, economic dispatch, system adequacy and reserves
calculations, traditional security evaluation (i.e., contingency analysis, including black-start and
in-rush currents for energizing transformers and electric machines), market design, economic
regulation, and cybersecurity. It is our hope that this roadmap becomes a cornerstone for
roadmapping work on future power systems with higher levels of inverter-based resources.

10 The Workshop on Grid-forming Inverters for Low-Inertia Power Systems was held at the University of
Washington in Seattle on April 29-30 2019. Presentations and video are available at
https://lowinertiagrids.ece.uw.edu/.

=== page 16 ===
5
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
1 Power System Stability Concepts
As described in Kundur et al. (2004), classic power system stability criteria include categories
for rotor angle, frequency, and voltage stability, and each category encompasses both short and
long timescales. This framework was created throughout many decades and encompasses
behavior across generation-level and network interactions as well as the impact of loads. As
illustrated on the bottom of Figure 2, this framework for categorizing stability criteria is often
considered in terms of timescales and historically focused on how stability was provided by large
electromechanical generators.
This roadmap focuses on controls and protection of hybrid systems comprising traditional
electromechanical generation and inverter-based generation. We start by focusing on the
differences between electromechanical and inverter-based interfaces at the individual generator
level and attempt to extrapolate these differences to impacts on system-level stability. Because
inverters and machines are primarily distinguished by their response at shorter timescales, we
restrict our scope to the short-term stability of frequency dynamics and voltage (see the top of
Figure 2).

Figure 2. The various timescales and control functions that comprise power system stability.
Classic notions for conventional systems are shown on the bottom. We highlight the various
phenomena that must be considered as systems transition to inverter-based generation. This
document is restricted in scope to the fast-timescale issues enclosed in green. (AGC refers to
"automatic generation control.")
To highlight shortcomings of classic stability criteria for mixed machine-inverter systems, we
note that conventional metrics are largely defined in terms of machine dynamics and their system

=== page 17 ===
6
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
impacts. Both rotor angle and frequency stability are strongly tied to the dynamics of rotating
mechanical components in traditional generators. Given that power electronics have no
mechanical components, it is clear that an expanded set of stability definitions is needed to
describe the role of inverters in future systems.
As a potential approach to overcome these shortcomings, we can link variables within inverter
controllers that have behavior analogous to machine rotor angles. Using such a framework, it
might be feasible to obtain a unified set of angle and frequency stability criteria where angular
dynamics encompass both mechanical rotors as well as inverter angles that reside within their
digital controls. This extension is illustrated in Figure 2, which consider both mechanical and
inverter behavior.
On the other hand, voltage stability is strongly tied to reactive power generation and the
dynamics of voltage regulation control loops. Focusing first on reactive power, the question is
not whether the generation is electromechanically based or power electronics-based; both forms
of generation have well-understood capabilities for producing reactive power, and reactive power
is needed for certain loads and other system components. Instead, the key issue is the
geographic/topologic locations of reactive power generation in a conventional power system
versus a future hybrid power system and thus the coordinated control of these hybrid, dispersed
resources and the differing line impedances at the transmission and distribution levels.
Specifically, traditional generation is generally interconnected at the high-voltage transmission
system, whereas inverter-based generation might be interconnected to the transmission system as
well as dispersed across and interconnected within medium- and lower voltage distribution
systems. Voltage regulation from these dispersed, distribution-connected generation expands
stability analysis and control requirements.
Finally, we must also recognize that the character of the initiating, potentially destabilizing
events to which a power system must react and respond will also change because of the
characteristics and properties of inverter-based resources. One key area of research involves
rethinking the logic of and mechanisms relied on for triggering system protection. To a large
extent, traditional forms of system protection rely on the high fault currents that are produced by
traditional generation sources. Today's inverter-based sources, by design, provide lower-
sometimes much lower-fault currents. Inverter-based resources, moreover, do not provide the
same fault current phasors as traditional machine generators. System protection methods for
hybrid power systems, therefore, will need to be reengineered, accounting for these differing
fault currents and conditions.
To further illustrate power system fault response issues, the analysis of several events involving
the cessation of inverter-based generation shows that stable operation support is needed during
those fault events (NERC 2018a; NERC 2018b; NERC 2017b). The ability of inverter-based
generation sources to ride-through faults encompasses several related research topics. First, as
noted in the previous paragraph, the ability to sense faults and distinguish them reliably from
other voltage fluctuations is more difficult because of the low short-circuit currents available

=== page 18 ===
7
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
from today's inverter-based sources. Second, the appropriate criteria for ride-through must be
articulated.11 Third, once the fault has been ridden through, recovery must proceed.
Although modern grid-following inverters will contribute to recovery following a fault,12 black-
start following a power system outage could present a challenge for situations in which inverter-
based generation sources have replaced most of the synchronous resources (including those with
black-start capability). Grid-following inverters might have limited restoration-support
capabilities because they depend on external sources that regulate system frequency and
voltages. Inverter-based grid-forming sources, in contrast, would be designed to establish
frequency and control voltage autonomously, and therefore they might be designed to both
provide black-start capability and facilitate system restoration following a blackout.

11 The topic of appropriate ride-through criteria is currently an active area of discussion in the industry led by the
North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Inverter-Based Resource Performance Task Force
(IRPTF) and, more recently, the IEEE P2800 industry standard team.
12 Recent Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and NERC activity at the bulk power system level-and
IEEE 1547 as updated in 2018 at the distribution level-are now in place to ensure that future nonsynchronous
resources support voltage, frequency, and ride-through. Although these rules do not apply to legacy inverters, NERC
and the industry are actively working to improve the performance of legacy inverters when this is possible and
practical. See, for example, FERC orders 842 and 827, NERC PRC-024, and the work of the NERC IRPTF.

=== page 19 ===
8
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
2 Overview of Grid-Following and Grid-Forming
Controllers for Inverter-Based Generation
A power electronic inverter converts DC power from an energy resource-such as wind, PV, or
batteries-to AC power for use in an AC power system.13 As shown in Figure 3, a typical power
electronic inverter consists of a DC side, which contains a DC link; a set of switching
semiconductor devices; and a grid-side passive filter that prevents switching harmonics from
propagating into the grid. The input side of the DC-link interfaces either directly with an energy
source or might be connected to additional power electronics-like DC-to-DC converter(s).
Because an inverter power stage is built solely with switching devices and passive filters, closed-
loop control is required for any kind of meaningful operation. In modern converters, a significant
fraction of closed-loop controllers takes the form of a digital controller. Digital controllers are
fully programmable, so they exhibit a high degree of algorithmic flexibility and enable the
synthesis of new controllers with relative ease. An overview of inverter controllers is provided in
Figure 4.

13 Inverters can also be designed for bidirectional operation; however, the details of this are beyond the scope of this
report.

=== page 20 ===
9
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Figure 3. General structure of an inverter system with closed-loop control

Figure 4. Functional diagrams of grid-following and grid-forming inverters. Grid-following
inverters mimic current sources at their output terminals, whereas grid-forming inverters act like
voltage sources whose output abides by droop laws.
Figure 4 highlights the functional control diagrams for grid-following and grid-forming inverters.
These are further described in the following section. At a high level, grid-following and grid-
forming control can be differentiated, as shown in Table 1.14

14 Adapted from MIGRATE: https://www.h2020-migrate.eu/.

=== page 21 ===
10
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Table 1. Comparison of Grid-Following and Grid-Forming Controls
Grid-Following Control
Grid-Forming Control
Assumes grid already formed under normal
operations
Assumes it has responsibility to form and maintain
healthy grid
Direct-quadrature (dq)15 vector control of current
injected into the grid
Control of voltage magnitude and frequency/phase
Decoupled control of P and Q
Slight coupling between P and Q
Needs PLL
It may use PLL control to switch between modes
Needs voltage at the point of common coupling
to deliver P and Q
Can black-start a power system
Cannot operate at 100% power electronics
penetration; instability thresholds (tipping points)
exist
Can theoretically operate at 100% power
electronics penetration; can coexist with grid-
following

Not standardized, inadequate operational
experience at a systems perspective
Further, note that grid-following and grid-forming control definitions for bulk power system
versus distribution connected resources is likely to be different. This is because emerging
microgrid functionality (the ability to operate in islanded mode-planned or unplanned) typically
is applied to distribution resources, whereas for the bulk power system, generally separation or
islanding is avoided. Distribution-focused grid-forming resource stakeholders are therefore likely
to assume islanding capability when developing and integrating grid-forming generation and
storage.
2.1 Grid-Following Controllers
As illustrated in Figure 4, the grid-following controller contains two main subsystems: a PLL
that estimates the instantaneous angle of the measured converter terminal voltage and a current-
control loop that regulates the AC current injected into the grid.16 This is often referred to as
current control because the current is the physical quantity that is regulated. In this setting, the
PLL provides the angular reference of the current commands and carries out the "following"
behavior. As shown in Figure 4, the grid-following AC terminals mimic a current source whose
real and reactive output tracks the references. For fixed power commands, an inverter acts like a
constant real-reactive power (PQ) source.17
This control strategy is called grid-following because its functionality depends on each inverter
having a well-defined terminal voltage that its PLL can latch onto and follow. In this setting, the
system voltage and frequency are regulated by resources external to each grid-following inverter.

15 dq control refers to control with respect to a three-phase synchronous reference frame.
16 Although the electromechanics and controls are different, a traditional generator has similar requirements. It also
needs to establish equal line voltage, frequency, phase sequence, phase angle, and waveform to that of the system to
which it is being synchronized and connected.
17 PQ control seeks steady-state active and reactive power output according to a reference-for instance, within a
certain range of frequency and voltage of the interconnection AC bus, the inverter regulates active and reactive
power to reference values.

=== page 22 ===
11
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
As the proportion of the grid-following inverters on a grid increases, it might be necessary to
embed additional functions that prevent excessive voltage and frequency deviations. These are
called grid-support functions, and they are described in Section 4.
Today, nearly all grid-connected inverters are controlled with a grid-following controller such as
this. Additional functionalities are typically layered on top of this baseline controller and vary
between single-phase and three-phase implementations. Regardless, the grid-following control
structure shown in Figure 4 generally holds. Because grid-following methods are currently the
default inverter controller and will be into the near future, these properties are key to
understanding grid stability operations for many years.
2.2 Grid-Forming Controllers
During the past two decades, a variety of grid-forming strategies have been developed. Here, we
use the term grid-forming as an umbrella for any inverter controller that regulates instantaneous
terminal voltages and can coexist with other grid-following and grid-forming inverters and
synchronous generation on the same system. We further restrict our definition to inverter
controls that do not require a PLL.18 This contrasts with grid-following units that act as current
sources, require a PLL, and cannot function without an externally regulated voltage. Our use of
the term grid-forming also excludes single-inverter stand-alone systems or multi-inverter systems
that require communications to operate. In principle, grid-forming inverters should allow for the
realization of scalable and decentralized AC power systems where system voltages and
frequency are regulated by the collective interactions of the grid-forming units themselves. In
this sense, the synchronous machine represents the well-understood grid-forming interface.
Looking toward the future, we seek grid-forming inverter controllers that yield benefits similar to
those of machines while respecting the unique properties of power electronics.
As shown in Figure 4, existing grid-forming controllers can be broadly categorized as droop
controllers, virtual synchronous machines (often called synchronverters), and virtual oscillator
controllers, to name a few. We consider each method as follows:
- Droop control: The most well-established grid-forming method is droop control, which was
first proposed in the early 1990s (Chandorkar, Divan, and Adapa 1993). Its key feature is that
it exhibits a linear trade-off between frequency and voltage versus real and reactive power,
much like a typical synchronous machine does in steady state. These so-called "droop laws"
are referred to as the P-omega (real power-frequency) and Q-V (reactive power-voltage)
relationships, and they give rise to the following properties regardless of whether they are
machines or inverters:
o System-wide synchronization: All units reach the same frequency.
o Power sharing: Each unit provides power in proportion to its capacity (or its
programmable droop slope).
These properties arise as a result of the networked interactions from the grid and locally
programmed droop laws.

18 We recognize that there are other means of implementing grid-forming control functions (including continued
reliance on PLLs), but these are not the focus of this roadmap.

=== page 23 ===
12
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- Virtual synchronous machines: This approach is based on the emulation of a synchronous
machine within the controls of an inverter (Beck and Hesse 2007; Alatrash 2012; Zhong
2016). Specifically, inverter terminal measurements are fed as inputs into a digital
synchronous machine model whose emulated dynamics are mapped to the inverter output in
real time. The complexity of the virtual machine can vary greatly, from detailed
electromechanical models to simplified swing dynamics. Implementations that closely match
machine characteristics, possibly even with virtual flux dynamics, have both Q-V and P-
omega characteristics and are often called "synchronverters." On the other end of the
spectrum, virtual inertia methods are simpler and capture only the dynamics of an emulated
rotor and its steady-state P-omega droop.
- Virtual oscillator controllers: In recent years, another inverter control method based on the
emulation of nonlinear oscillators has emerged (Johnson et al. 2016a). Much like a virtual
synchronous machine, real-time measurements are processed by the digitally implemented
model whose output variables modulate the inverter power stage. As illustrated in Figure 4,
the key difference is that the model takes the form of an oscillator circuit with a natural
frequency that coincides with the nominal AC grid frequency, and its remaining parameters
are tuned to adjust the nominal voltage and control bandwidth. Although the virtual oscillator
might appear radically different, it has been shown to exhibit the Q-V and P-omega droop
laws in steady state.
- Unified properties of grid-forming controllers: Despite the differences between droop
controllers, virtual synchronous machines, and virtual oscillators, all three methods have
similar properties that allow us to consider them. In particular, the output terminal behavior
of an inverter with any of these grid-forming controllers resembles a voltage source with an
amplitude and frequency that varies with reactive power generation and the system load,
respectively. This property allows grid-forming inverters to adjust output power nearly
instantaneously to balance loads, regulate local voltage, and contribute to frequency
control.19 Although grid-following inverters can be programmed to emulate the
aforementioned grid-following properties, they nonetheless require a well-defined terminal
voltage as a reference. Presently, grid-forming inverters are typically seen in microgrids and
in off-grid installations that require high reliability.

19 Although it is sometimes natural to equate grid-forming and grid-following with voltage- and current-control
modes for inverters, respectively, there are technical subtleties associated with each form of control that we seek to
avoid; instead, we focus on describing the grid-related functionalities involved in grid-forming versus grid-following
control at a higher level.

=== page 24 ===
13
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
3 Inverter Control State-of-the-Art and Open Research
Questions
In this section, we provide a brief snapshot of the capabilities of grid-forming controllers within
the context of frequency and voltage control. To provide a more complete picture of the current
state of inverter technologies, we also highlight relevant grid-support functions that are being
used on grid-following inverters today. After delineating contemporary advances, we highlight
open research questions that must be addressed to enable the widespread adoption on bulk power
and distribution grids.
3.1 Frequency Control
3.1.1 Classic Frequency Control
Frequency control refers to generation control actions that are designed to maintain the system
frequency near the nominal value (e.g., 60 Hz in North America and 50 Hz in Europe). For
machine-based grids, system frequency is intricately tied to the Newtonian mechanics of the
rotating generator masses and the speed-governor droop law at each generator. Lower system
inertia leads to higher rates of change in frequency. As a corollary to this property, lower inertia
results in the arrest of frequency at lower (higher) frequency values, which is called the nadir (or
the zenith), after an abrupt loss of generation (or decrease in load). The nadir (or zenith) is
formed when the machines across a system reach a common steady-state frequency with a
deviation from the nominal value that is proportional to the P-omega droop slope. These
dynamics, which arise as a result of the machine-level physics and droop controls, are referred to
as primary frequency control and take place in a matter of seconds. The system inertia primarily
correlates with the combined rotating mass of the subset of machine-based generators operating
in grid-forming, or synchronous droop, control. As more synchronous rotational mass is added or
subtracted from the grid, inertia is proportionally added or subtracted, and, likewise, system
damping20 is increased or decreased. Inverter-based resources do not contribute inertia to a
power system. As traditional resources are replaced with inverter-based resources, system inertia
and thus damping is reduced, making the risk of frequency swings higher (and thus are referred
to as "weak grids"; see IEEE/NERC [2018]). Operationalizing grid-forming controls for inverter-
based resources, along with headroom operation, would counteract both the loss of inertia and
primary frequency control provided by retired synchronous generation. Similar to the natural
behavior of synchronous machines, grid-forming inverter-based resources would autonomously
detect the frequency swing and autonomously adjust its power injection during a low frequency
event.
To restore the system frequency to its nominal value, a secondary communications-based
method, called automatic generation control, issues updates in the generation set points during a
period of tens of seconds to a few minutes (Kundur, Balu, and Lauby 1994; Sauer and Pai 1998).
At the slowest timescale, a tertiary dispatch layer issues updated commands via an economic

20 Additional basic controls theory and power system modal analysis are beyond the scope of this report. Damping is
also affected by the electromagnetic characteristics of grid equipment and load response to frequency; see
IEEE/NERC (2018). Other key concepts include resonance, tuning gains, deadband, etc. For traditional background
information, see Kundur, Balu, and Lauby (1994); Sauer and Pai (1998).

=== page 25 ===
14
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
optimization routine that is executed typically every 5 to 15 minutes. It is noteworthy that the
primary, secondary, and tertiary controllers act on these distinct timescales. This strategy is also
observed on inverter microgrids, as discussed in following sections.
3.1.2 Frequency Dynamics of Low-Inertia Systems
As inverters displace machines on a system, it is evident that the total inertia on that system is
reduced (IEEE/NERC 2018), as shown for the Eastern Interconnection in Figure 5. Reduced
inertia results in a larger rate of change of frequency and more volatile system dynamics, and it
also necessitates faster control actions to arrest frequency swings (Ulbig, Borsche, and
Andersson 2014). Because the magnitude of the frequency swing after a disturbance is largely
tied to the imbalance between generation and load, enough untapped capacity must be reserved
as headroom for frequency control. This can take the form of storage, spinning generators, and/or
renewable-powered inverters that are operated at less than their nameplate rating or maximum
available power level. Inverter-interfaced batteries can also be deployed. A drawback is that
unused capacity could represent an opportunity cost for both renewable and fossil-fueled
generation because power output must be throttled to less than the available amount.

Source: NERC 2017a
Figure 5. Decreasing total system inertia for the Eastern Interconnection
Regardless of whether machine- or inverter-interfaced resources are used as reserves, their
dynamic time constants must be carefully considered and respected. For instance, the physical
time constants of electromechanical machines are relatively slow and act as an intrinsic
bottleneck. In low-inertia systems where frequency deviations could be large, spinning
mechanical reserves might not be fast enough to provide primary frequency control (Ulbig,

=== page 26 ===
15
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Borsche, and Andersson 2014; IEEE/NERC 2018). This leaves inverters and other fast-acting
assets (such as some loads) as the most viable options for primary frequency control.21
3.1.3 Inverter-Based Resources for Frequency Control
Referring to the controllers shown in Figure 4, we provide a brief survey of existing frequency
control strategies. We first focus on grid-forming controls and recall that they all exhibit P-
omega steady-state droop laws despite differences in implementation and instantaneous
dynamics. Of particular importance, those relations govern the steady-state frequency deviation
after initial transients have subsided. Typically, these relations are tuned such that the frequency
stays within a narrow range near the nominal frequency. This mirrors established practice of how
governors are tuned in classic machine-based systems.
On this note, there are established control strategies for inverter-based microgrids, which are
similar in spirit to hierarchical control methods in classic power systems. In particular, the
effective P-omega droop slope at each inverter can be tuned for the desired primary response at
the timescale of tens of milliseconds to seconds, and schemes using low-bandwidth
communications have been used for secondary frequency restoration and even tertiary-level
energy dispatch (Guerrero et al. 2011; Shafiee, Guerrero, and Vasquez 2014; Lasseter et al.
2002). This suite of methods can be used to manage energy on a microgrid from AC cycles to
extended periods. Although these approaches have been used on droop-controlled inverters, in
principle they could be applied to any other grid-forming controller shown in Figure 4 if each
controller has inputs for external set points.
Lacking mature grid-forming solutions for distributed generation, communications and
scalability are key issues that hinder the use of hierarchical microgrid strategies on the broader
grid. In contrast to microgrids, which are relatively small and contained, bulk systems might
have hundreds of thousands to millions of controllable devices throughout a large geographic
area. Hence, centralized secondary and tertiary control becomes impractical without appropriate
aggregate-control schemes and system partitioning. Note that if partitioned control areas are
used, they will likely need to remain relatively small to accommodate the large numbers of
inverters per geographic area. This implies that although distributed hierarchical schemes are
feasible, they will entail a larger number of control areas and associated communications
infrastructure. Detailed communications network upgrades are out of scope for this roadmap.
One can also ask why frequency regulation is needed in an inverter-based system dominated by
electronics. For today's AC grid, frequency/phase control is foundational at the primary response
timescale, and hence it is needed relative to the prior discussed power system damping
requirements during contingency events. To answer this question in detail for the secondary and
tertiary timescales, however, recall that power set points are most straightforwardly tracked when
the system frequency is restored to nominal. This is because the traditional linear approach
works because the machine dynamics are relatively slow, and therefore there is a large linear
region for dispatch convergence. If the desired result is to dispatch set points that are optimal in

21 The Electric Reliability Council of Texas interconnection, for example, relies on fast (within 0.5 second)
interruption of industrial loads that provide half the frequency containment reserve, which the Electric Reliability
Council of Texas procures through its ancillary services market.

=== page 27 ===
16
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
any sort of system-level economic sense, it might be necessary to restore the system frequency
by some means.22
Although the controllers shown in Figure 4 have similar steady-state characteristics, distinctions
arise when comparing how each grid-forming controller reacts dynamically at the shortest
timescales. To uncover these differences, we inspect the underlying implementations shown in
Figure 4.
Referring first to the droop controller, note that its loop contains filters that are used to remove
harmonics and pulsating components from the measured signals (Hart, Lasseter, and Jahns 2016;
Guerrero et al. 2011; Johnson et al. 2017; Lasseter 2002). These filters, which often take the
form of low-pass and/or notch filters, act as the primary means to adjust the response of a droop-
controlled inverter. In droop designs, careful trade-offs must be made between harmonics and
speed while ensuring stability. Of the three grid-forming methods considered here, droop control
is the most mature and has been validated in multi-inverter setups and in mixed inverter-machine
systems (Lasseter et al. 2011). Droop-controlled inverters have also been tested in commercially
operated demonstrations (Alegria et al. 2014). Note that additional variants exist for enhanced
speed and robustness (Zhong 2013) as well as various types of P and Q versus V and omega
trade-off relations (e.g., P-V, Q-omega droop).
In a virtual synchronous machine, the underlying machine model parameters dictate its dynamic
response. In particular, the damping, inertia, and flux-linkage parameters are virtual and can be
tuned (Beck and Hesse 2007; Alatrash et al. 2012; Zhong 2016). Although the response of a
virtual synchronous machine is similar to that of an actual machine, its time constants can be
compressed. Virtual synchronous machines were proposed in the mid-2000s (Beck and Hesse
2007) and have been validated in several multi-inverter experiments. Recent improvements
include virtual elements to prevent instabilities (Natarajan and Weiss 2017), additional loops for
faster response (Dong and Chen 2017), and designs that give bounds for frequency and terminal
voltages (Zhong et al. 2017). If we restrict our focus to only virtual inertia methods that emulate
rotational dynamics, the number of parameters is reduced to the mass and damping factors, and
the design is considerably simpler. Virtual inertia methods are starting to reach early-stage
industrial trials (Rahmani et al. 2017).
Because virtual oscillator methods are based on the emulation of nonlinear circuits, the response
of these methods is tuned by the selection of the virtual circuit parameters, such as inductance,
capacitance, and scaling gains. The virtual oscillator is relatively simple, and its parameters can
be unambiguously computed from a set of AC system performance specifications, such as droop
slopes, response time, and inverter rating. This control method is relatively new and first
appeared in 2013 (Dhople, Johnson, and Hamadeh 2013). Although original incarnations lacked
inputs for set points and a trade-off between speed and harmonics, recent advancements include
set-point integration and a harmonic-free oscillation (Colombino, Groß, and Dörfler 2017; Seo et
al. 2018). To date, virtual oscillators have been evaluated in multi-inverter hardware experiments

22 Future 100% power electronics-based grids might be hybrid AC-to-DC systems and/or operate at varied
frequencies. If so, a method of tracking set points under variable frequencies will need to be developed.

=== page 28 ===
17
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
(Johnson et al. 2014) and on commercial hardware (Lu et al. 2018), but mixed machine-inverter
experiments are still needed.
Although grid-following inverters depend on a well-defined frequency and voltage on a system,
they can be programmed to mitigate their contribution to frequency swings. This takes the form
of a grid-support function called frequency-watt control. Noting that frequency-watt methods are
an extension of established grid-following methods in industry, they have been used in several
grids, such as Hawaii's (Johnson et al. 2016b). This function, which mimics the P-omega droop
law, has been compared directly to grid-forming droop control via simulation studies (El Khatib,
Wei, and Lasseter 2018).
3.1.4 Research Questions
In the following discussion, we provide a summary of open research topics that warrant further
investigation based on assuming the eventual deployment of thousands of grid-forming inverters
at subtransmission or distribution voltages with automatic frequency and voltage control to
replace the loss of synchronous generation inertia. We begin by summarizing some issues that
are particular to grid-forming techniques:
- Should grid-forming control actions be partitioned according to timescales, and if so, how?
- Given the second-to-second level potential rate of change of frequency, can we assume
autonomous (communications-less) primary frequency response is required? Is this feasible
with grid-forming control?
- For secondary and tertiary frequency control, what signals, if any, must be communicated
between distribution-level inverters and system operators such that frequency regulation is
achieved? What kind of communications infrastructure does this imply (distributed peer-to-
peer, aggregators, centralized, bandwidth, and latency)?
- What system operational and dynamic ramifications of grid-forming sources with reserve
(standby) energy can be provided for the loss of synchronous generation inertia?
- Grid-forming sources fundamentally provide fast frequency control provided they have the
necessary reserves. What reserve requirements keep frequency within acceptable bounds?
Does locating grid-forming resources within the distribution or subtransmission system
impact this ability to control frequency?
- Can frequency regulation bands be loosened in a strong grid dominated by grid-forming
inverters? What are the desired modal damping characteristics of strong and likewise weak
grids? As the relative inverter-to-machines proportion changes (instantaneous and throughout
time), are passive or active regulation bands desired?
Next, we consider issues related to system heterogeneity and frequency regulation:
- What shares of rotating generators and grid-following and grid-forming inverters can
guarantee power system stability?
- Can heterogeneous systems containing grid-following inverters, grid-forming inverters, and
machines operate together to guarantee frequency regulation and stability?
- How important is frequency regulation in a system dominated by power electronics?
- To what extent can "must-run" synchronous generators be reduced and replaced by grid-
forming inverter-based generation with enhanced functionalities? Could synchronous
condensers be replaced as well? For both, is there a limit?

=== page 29 ===
18
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- What is the target scenario for frequency regulation in future interconnected power systems
with very high shares of grid-forming inverter-coupled generation? What types of
experiments are needed to characterize hybrid systems with grid-following inverters, grid-
forming inverters, and synchronous machines?
Active power control of inverter-based renewable generation is technically feasible, but such
plants will require sacrificing some energy production by operating below the maximum power
point to provide the necessary reserves (Hoke et al. 2017). It is necessary to investigate, develop,
and validate ways that inverter-based generation, with and without storage, can support grid
frequency control. Last, we look at operational impacts for renewable generation resources:
- What are the fundamental issues related to renewable grid-forming inverters providing
frequency control?
- What control and operational requirements enable renewable grid-forming inverters to
replace the loss of inertia for frequency control?
- What are the impacts of different levels of PV headroom (0% to 30%) on frequencies during
large events, including frequency load shedding? How do these studies include distributed
PV?
3.2 Voltage Control
Voltage control refers to generation control actions to increase or decrease real and/or reactive
power production and network switching operations (either dynamic or static) required to
maintain power system voltages within an acceptable range. The control requirements for these
actions depend on the topology of the transmission or distribution system, the electrical distance
between loads and generation, and the loading on the transmission or distribution system.
Voltage control must be exercised through actions that are local to the voltage issues they seek to
manage. Generally, voltage control via real power is not preferred given enhanced voltage
sensitivity to reactive power control, and moreover generator revenue is mostly, if not entirely,
via real power production. Voltage control is the measured change in voltage magnitude between
the sending and receiving end of a grid component, such as a transmission or distribution line.
Voltage regulation describes the ability of a system to provide near constant voltage over a wide
range of variable load and generation conditions. Passive voltage drop takes place under various
load conditions. Grid cables and conductors intrinsically have some amount of resistance,
inductance, and capacitance that all change the voltage continuously along the line. Both the
magnitude and phase angle of voltage change along the line. Active voltage intervention
(increasing or reducing voltage to preferred operational limits) might use electromechanical or
electronic components, from generators to other devices, specifically for voltage control. Such
devices include load tap changers, voltage regulators, capacitor banks, synchronous condensers,
and others, along with early-stage commercialization of solid-state technology (power
electronics).
For synchronous generators, their automatic voltage regulator adjusts operation voltage output
either by adjusting power output via the main field or real and reactive power output by
modulating the exciter field (electromagnetic flux) via controlling the exciter field current.
Voltage control coordination among synchronous generators is via their Q-V droop control,
expressed as a linear relationship between reactive power and voltage.

=== page 30 ===
19
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Grid-forming inverters natively provide voltage regulation via their Q-V droop laws. Mirroring
terminology from frequency control, this is generally called primary voltage control to
emphasize that these control actions are done locally. All grid-forming controllers considered
here except virtual inertia have a linear trade-off between steady-state voltage and reactive
power, which is often called volt-volt ampere reactive (VAR) control. This closely matches the
behavior of synchronous machines, which also have such functions in their voltage control loop.
Thus, grid-forming inverters can be especially helpful in providing voltage support in weak grids
(IEEE/NERC 2018; NERC 2019). In general, Q-V droop enables multiple generation units to be
connected in parallel, limits voltage deviations on a system, and mitigates reactive power flows
between units.
Recent advances in voltage control for inverter systems are mostly concentrated in microgrid
systems with droop control (Lasseter and Piagi 2004) and/or off-grid applications. With respect
to primary-level volt-VAR control, virtual impedances have been used to assist with reactive
power sharing and to mitigate parameter sensitivity (Erickson, Jahns, and Lasseter 2012;
Guerrero 2011; Mahmood, Michaelson, and Jiang 2015). To further enhance reactive power
sharing and reduce steady-state errors, communications-based secondary-level controllers have
been proposed (Simpson-Porco et al. 2015; Guerrero et al. 2011). To assist with scalability,
distributed implementations with reduced numbers of communications links have been
formulated. But because inverters would be much more numerous and geographically dispersed
on bulk grids, it might be difficult to apply these approaches, which are tailored for microgrids.
Typical grid-forming inverters do not provide high levels of fault current that typically stabilize
voltage during transient events.
As summarized in Figure 2, the timescales associated with machine voltage exciters and inverter
control loops overlap. Recent findings have uncovered adverse interactions between grid-
forming inverters and synchronous machine excitation systems that regulate voltages (Khan et al.
2018a), and similar issues have been observed on grid-following control types (Lin et al. 2017).
These interactions can destabilize hybrid systems and appear to be common to both grid-
following and grid-forming inverter controls. Such phenomena were uncovered recently and
form the basis of ongoing and active research.
In recent years, grid-following inverters have also been updated with volt-VAR controls. Just as
frequency-watt functionality is a modification of the typical grid-following controller, volt-VAR
is a functionality layered on top of the baseline grid-following control loops. In contrast to
machinery and grid-forming inverters, which exhibit linear volt-VAR trade-offs, a recent trend is
to program piecewise linear volt-VAR relationships on grid-following inverters (IEEE 2018a).
To prevent any interactions between volt-VAR controls and the baseline grid-following loops,
time delays and filters are often used to segregate volt-VAR control action and artificially
throttle its speed; however, such approaches are known to introduce undesired voltage
oscillations and interactions between grid-following inverters (Chakraborty, Hoke, and
Lundstrom 2015) and voltage-regulation equipment on the same distribution network (Zhou and
Bialek 2007). Recent findings indicate that the coexistence of control delays and piecewise volt-
VAR relationships might be responsible for such behavior (Farivar, Chen, and Low 2013; Zhu
and Liu 2016).

=== page 31 ===
20
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
3.2.1 Research Questions
Following is a summary of relevant technical challenges for voltage regulation:
- Investigate the impact on voltage control resulting from the loss of reactive power generation
in the bulk system as synchronous generators are replaced by thousands of grid-forming and
grid-following inverters across the transmission, subtransmission, and distribution networks.
This results in moving the control of reactive power and voltage from the bulk system to an
array of distributed inverters with local voltage/VAR control. How do thousands of grid-
forming and grid-following inverters at medium voltages and lower affect system voltage
stability and control? How do these voltage regulation schemes coordinate with other
devices, such as capacitor banks, static VAR compensators, synchronous condensers, and
other voltage support devices? With competing volt-VAR support from different devices,
how are trade-offs identified and optimization addressed?
- What stability/interaction issues might arise between grid-forming inverters?
- What are the interactions between machine excitation systems and inverters with either grid-
forming or grid-following controls? Can inverter and machine-side controls be tuned to
eliminate such interactions? Should grid-forming inverters be supplemented with oscillation-
damping functions that mimic classic power system stabilizers?
- How should we characterize the input and output impedance of grid-forming inverters across
a wide frequency spectrum to illuminate the dynamic properties of inverters?
- What are the requirements concerning the geographic distribution of generation and control
capabilities? How do grid-following and grid-forming inverters control voltage and reactive
power?
- Does reactive power control impact system voltage stability? Are there limits to the mix of
rotating generators and grid-following and grid-forming inverters to ensure robust voltage
control with minimum circulating VAR?
- How should VAR flow be controlled-at each inverter, at locally aggregated inverters, or
through coupled communications networks?
- For distribution connected inverters, how will their voltage support be coordinated with
transmission voltage regulation, especially when transmission and distribution might have
conflicting control requests? Piecewise linear volt-VAR control for distributed energy
resources have inherent instability points. How are these avoided?
- Can grid-following inverters with volt-VAR grid support be operated in tandem with grid-
forming inverters?
3.3 System Protection
Protection of the electric grid is a branch of power systems engineering that involves the
detection of abnormal grid operating conditions, such as low or high impedance faults, and the
mitigation of deleterious effects of those abnormal conditions, such as disconnection of faulted
parts of the network. Power system protection is concerned with ensuring the stability of the
power system while minimizing how much of the network is disconnected. The overall goal is to
minimize the geographic and temporal extent of network outages caused by abnormal conditions
through the operation and coordination of protection devices in different areas of the grid. With
inverter-based resources replacing synchronous generators, transmission-level protection is
evolving. Priority focus today is on identifying weak grids (low short-circuit currents) and
continuing to develop improved protection and relaying (IEEE/NERC 2018). Beyond inherently

=== page 32 ===
21
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
improving protection for weak grids, this is also associated with inverter-based resources having
different magnitude and phase characteristics than synchronous generators. Various adaptive
protection schemes have been proposed, and some are being tested in limited field trials. With
more extensive inverter-based resources and especially distributed generation, today's protection
will need to move away from basic, static schemes to more adaptive, situationally aware
protection schemes.
Because of the historical prevalence of synchronous generation on the bulk grid, distribution
power system protection has been optimized for radial systems. The recent increased penetration
of distributed grid-following resources has produced many technical challenges regarding classic
distribution protection, with bidirectional power flow as one example. These challenges come
from the nature of incorporating distributed energy resources on the distribution system as well
as the dynamics of grid-following controls compared to traditional synchronous machines.
Although the effect of grid-following controls on the incumbent protection system has been
studied for a number of protection mechanisms (Martinez et al. 2011; Walling, Gursoy, and
English 2012; IEEE PES 2013; Farantatos et al. 2013; Fischer and Mendonca 2012; Howard
2013; Howard, Liang, and Harley 2014; Karaagac et al. 2015; Kocar et al. 2014; Kauffmann et
al. 2015), and it has been determined that high penetrations of renewable generation result in
potential incorrect operation of traditional protection mechanisms (EPRI 2014; EPRI 2017a;
EPRI 2017b; EPRI 2017c; Seguin et al. 2016), the effect of grid-forming inverters on protection
is fundamentally different than that of grid-following inverters and has not been extensively
studied. The short-circuit currents from grid-forming inverters can be equivalent to synchronous
generation but are normally constrained to 4-6 p.u. for short time periods (<10 cycles) before
steady-state limits (<2 p.u.) are imposed using secondary current or voltage loops (Lasseter et al.
2011). Brief time period short-circuit response (<10 cycles) is typically limited by semiconductor
ratings, whereas steady-state short-circuit response is limited by several inverter hardware
parameters (e.g., copper conductor sizes, thermal management system). It is an open question
whether the displacement of traditional synchronous machines or grid-following inverters with
grid-forming inverters will further exacerbate or alleviate the incorrect operation of protection
mechanisms (NERC 2018c). Adaptive protection is suggested as a solution for such hybrid grids,
and because of the lack of studies on the issue, we can only speculate on the effects of grid-
forming inverters on incumbent protection schemes.
For inverter-based resource implementation to enhance-or at least not hinder-current power
system protection schemes, it will be necessary to coordinate the controls of grid-forming
inverters with the 81 protection functions currently defined by the relevant protection standard,
IEEE C37.2 (IEEE 2008). Although synchronous generation has well-defined and predictable
currents and voltages during transient events (or well-understood models/experimental testing)
that allow for protection engineers to ensure subtransient and transient reactance are within
system specifications, no well-defined set of models and tests are provided from inverter
manufacturers. Additionally, inverter behavior is dominated by firmware, which can change
significantly throughout the operational lifetime of inverters, altering the faulted current
characteristics and invalidating protection system designs. Detailed analytic modeling and
simulation efforts, similar to those already underway for grid-following controls, are needed to
examine the effects of grid-forming implementations on power system protection and provide a
consistent framework for protection design for inverter installations. Without such a framework,

=== page 33 ===
22
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
protection engineering must carry out extensive studies on inverter behavior or extensive
redesign of the protection system, which increases the risk, complexity, and cost of inverter
installations.
3.3.1 Transition to Distribution Bidirectional Power Flow
Historically, the grid has been segmented between transmission, which contains the bulk
generation sources, and distribution, which contains loads. Incorporating additional distributed
generation sources at the distribution level changes the system paradigm from having
unidirectional power flow to having branches that experience bidirectional currents because of
the presence of local sources on the distribution network. If this backflow is in the opposite
direction of the fault current (and thus decreases the effective net current flow), then the efficacy
of traditional protection mechanisms is reduced. This backflow power is particularly challenging
in the case of variable generation sources because changes in current level detected might be a
result of a fault, change in load, or a change in generation. This variation in current might cause
nuisance tripping, fail to trip, underreach/overreach problems, loss of coordination, auto-
reclosing problems, and more.
The bidirectional power flow problem is further exacerbated by the inability of grid-following
controls to produce high fault currents (Fu et al. 2015). Traditional synchronous machines can
produce fault currents of 10 p.u. (Altuve Ferrer and Schweitzer 2010). This large fault current
allows enough margin for protection devices to actuate in the presence of a fault while
eliminating unwanted tripping events. Conversely, traditional grid-following controls typically
provide 2 p.u. or less of fault current in steady state, which is limited by the grid-following
control scheme (Alvidrez et al. 2016) and inverter hardware engineering (e.g., copper
conductors, switches, thermal management system). This relative lack of fault current makes the
detection and mitigation of fault events more challenging and more susceptible to unwanted
tripping events, especially when backflow power is considered.
The displacement of grid-following controls with grid-forming inverters will not necessarily
mitigate this bidirectional power flow problem. In theory, however, the fault current for grid-
forming inverters, though dominated in the steady state by the control scheme, will have a
subtransient behavior that more closely mimics synchronous machines and is significantly larger
than that supplied by grid-following controls. This larger short-circuit subtransient response will
be limited primarily by the short-circuit response of componentry in the grid-forming inverters,
which is directly related to its internal impedance. Grid-forming inverters will have an
intrinsically faster response to faults (i.e., current output increase) than grid-following inverters
because they do not use a fast inner current-control loop. Additionally, the use of robust
semiconductor devices with longer short-circuit times would allow for grid-forming inverters to
source greater short-circuit currents for longer periods, which would yield an increase in the
efficacy of traditional protection mechanisms than the pure grid-following case, although at a
subsequent increase in inverter hardware costs.
The short-circuit response of grid-forming inverters is an open question, and significant research
is needed to characterize the short-circuit response of grid-forming inverters to many different
abnormal grid operations (IEEE/NERC 2018). The short-circuit response should be well
characterized and, if possible, increased using either software or hardware to approach the values
provided by synchronous machines (Hartono and Setiabudy 2013).

=== page 34 ===
23
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
One protection issue unique to grid-forming inverters is operation in islanded/microgrid mode
when a portion of the power system is disconnected from the bulk grid. Traditional grid-
following controls will automatically shut off without the presence of an external grid signal
voltage, but grid-forming inverters can continue to operate islanded from the area grid (in many
cases, such resilient microgrid operation is a primary benefit to grid-forming inverters). To
protect utility workers and other bystanders, some form of islanding protection will be needed
for grid-forming inverters to safely operate in islanded mode while ensuring the safety of
electrical personnel and other bystanders. This must be balanced by the need for system
resilience because islanded operation is a key benefit of grid-forming inverters as a response to
widespread catastrophic events. A robust set of standards is necessary to balance autonomous
grid-forming operation in grid-connected mode during islanded/microgrid operation as well as
during line maintenance by electrical personnel.
3.3.2 Negative-Sequence Fault Current
One method protection devices use to detect unbalanced fault conditions is to monitor negative-
sequence fault currents. Synchronous machines will generate significant negative- and zero-
sequence currents during a fault condition that can be used to identify abnormal grid operation.
Traditional three-phase grid-following controls will not provide zero- or negative-sequence
currents, which can be used to more easily identify the presence of unbalanced fault conditions;
grid-following controls are designed to suppress negative-sequence current partially or entirely
(Teodorescu, Liserre, and Rodriguez 2011; Erlich et al. 2013; IEEE/NERC 2018). European grid
codes have recently been updated to add negative-sequence current injection performance
requirements from inverter-based resources. Theoretically, grid-forming inverters should be able
to reproduce the effects of synchronous machines in a fault condition, including sourcing zero-
and negative-currents; however, no commercially available three-phase grid-forming inverters
independently balance phases by providing zero- and negative-sequence currents (both as a result
of the current dq control paradigm as well as the tendency of commercial inverters to come in
three-wire, instead of four-wire, configurations as a cost-saving measure), so it is unknown if
they can source these currents during fault conditions. The ability of current grid-forming
inverters to produce zero- and negative-sequence current must be analyzed. Future grid-forming
control schemes should allow for the sourcing of zero- and negative-sequence currents. This
would yield an increase in the efficacy of traditional protection mechanisms compared to the
pure grid-following control case and would significantly simplify the identification of
unbalanced faults.
3.3.3 Out-of-Step and Power Swing Blocking Protection
At the transmission level, traditional grid-following controls introduce problems with
synchronization, resulting in out-of-step protection tripping and power swing blocking. A power
swing is the variation of power flows caused by changes in system state, such as load changes,
line switching, and generator disconnect (NERC 2013; Gers and Ariza 2008). During these
events, impedance line protection equipment differentiates between a fault and a power swing. If
the protection equipment determines that the change in voltage/current is the result of a power
swing and not a fault, it blocks protection relays from tripping. Similar to power swing blocking,
out-of-step protection tripping is meant to differentiate between a normal power swing and one
that is large enough to result in system instability.

=== page 35 ===
24
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Both these protection methods operate based on the rate of change of the voltage/current signal
wave because power swing deviation is dominated by synchronous machine inertia and thus has
a smaller rate of change than a fault. Because grid-following controls do not have any inherent
rotational inertia, systems with high penetrations of grid-following inverters exhibit significant
deviations in power swings and out-of-step protection-tripping characteristics from synchronous
generation (EPRI 2017b; EPRI 2017c), which might interrupt normal power swing detection and
cause unwanted tripping events.
Incorporating grid-forming inverters should significantly mitigate both out-of-step protection
tripping and power swing blocking protection concerns. Although they do not have traditional
inertia, their response time is fast enough to stabilize power swings, and as long as sufficient
headroom exists on the grid-forming generation source, they can simulate the dynamics of
synchronous machine inertia. It has been shown that grid-forming-based systems can respond
more quickly than inertia-based synchronous machines.
Incorporating high penetration levels of grid-following controls has produced many challenges
for traditional protection devices at both the distribution and transmission levels. As this trend
accelerates, incorrect operation of protection devices and increases in unwanted tripping events
is likely. Grid-forming inverters might significantly alleviate many of these problems because
they are capable of more accurately mimicking the inertial response of synchronous machines, on
which traditional protection is based; however, the detailed effects of grid-forming inverters on
protection devices are relatively unknown, and no detailed studies have yet been conducted on
the issue. Therefore, an open question is whether the displacement of traditional synchronous
machines with grid-forming inverters or grid-following controls with grid-forming inverters will
further exacerbate or alleviate these issues. More research is needed regarding the interaction of
grid-forming-based systems with traditional protection mechanisms at both the transmission and
distribution levels as grid-forming inverters displace synchronous generation as well as grid-
following controls.
Incorrect operation of conventional protection schemes is the most significant immediate barrier
to incorporating grid-forming controls into the power system. A detailed understanding of grid-
forming interaction with protection is necessary for system planners and designers to incorporate
grid-forming controls as a fundamental part of their systems. A robust standards ecosystem that
can mandate the consistent behavior of grid-forming inverters from different manufacturers to
the same contingency scenarios is most likely needed to improve the protection of grids with
grid-forming assets. We must explore whether today's protection schemes are appropriate and
effective long-term solutions for a grid with a significant proportion of generation produced by
grid-forming and grid-following inverters or whether a new protection paradigm is needed.
Significant open research topics regarding the effect of grid-forming inverters on protection
schemes include:
- What is the short-circuit response of grid-forming inverters? What is the effect of their
control schemes?
- Do grid-forming inverters have the ability to produce zero- and negative-sequence fault
current under unbalanced fault events?
- What is the effect of the grid-forming dynamic response on out-of-step protection tripping
and power swing blocking protection at the transmission level?

=== page 36 ===
25
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- What analytic and simulation models are needed for grid-forming inverters under fault
scenarios that will aid protection engineers in conducting accurate short-circuit studies?
3.4 Fault Ride-Through Capability and Power System Voltage
Recovery
Severe disturbances, such as transmission faults or tripping of relatively large generators, can
cause deleterious electromagnetic transients that can propagate throughout a large geographic
area and trigger system-level problems-a cascading event, for example. To ensure that a power
system reaches a desirable operational equilibrium after being perturbed, generators must remain
connected and support the grid. The ability of inverter-based generation to remain connected
while withstanding abnormal transients at its terminals is referred to as voltage ride-through,
disturbance ride-through, or FRT capability (Fairley 2003).
In addition to riding through a fault, power inverters must be capable of supporting the
restoration of a power system to normal operating conditions in terms of voltage magnitude and
angular speed. This task might be particularly challenging for inverters with grid-following
controls because they rely on externally generated voltage sources. On the other hand, inverters
with grid-forming controls could be more supportive of the grid because they are able to
autonomously generate voltages cycling at a synchronous speed. In general, operating a grid with
high penetrations of inverter-based generation is challenging because their power electronics
cannot handle momentarily overrated currents as well as synchronous machines can (Kroposki et
al. 2017). In the following discussion, we highlight a set of potential research areas pertaining to
inverters with grid-forming controls to ensure that they are capable of riding thorough faults and
supporting the grid.
Modern grid codes mandate that inverter-based generation sources not disconnect as long as their
voltage magnitudes remain within a prescribed class to regain stable grid operation (NERC 2016;
NERC 2018c; Dallachy and Tait 2002; IEEE 2008). Also, some codes stipulate that inverters
might be required by transmission operators to inject currents to support the operation of
protection systems as well as the recovery of grid voltages during and after faults (Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission [FERC] 2005). Notably, modern codes are invariant with
respect to the type of the primary energy source, power inverter topology, and controls-see,
e.g., FERC (2016) and NERC (2018c)-although FRT standards were first developed in
response to the integration of wind energy resources (Tsili and Papathanassiou 2009).
Standard PRC-024-2 (being updated by NERC for precision), for example, specifies a set of
fundamental frequency voltage magnitudes that all generation must withstand during severe
disturbances, as shown in Figure 6(a) (NERC 2016). Specifically, this set is defined by "high"
and "low" time-duration bounds that enclose a "no-trip zone" of normalized voltage
magnitudes.23 The voltages are considered to be measured at the point of interconnection of an
inverter-based power plant with the bulk power system. The envelope is constructed from
simulated voltage magnitude profiles that consider Zone 1 three-phase transmission system faults

23 Time-duration curves specify the cumulative uninterrupted time that voltage magnitudes remain within a
particular point of interconnection voltage interval.

=== page 37 ===
26
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
that can be cleared in no more than nine cycles.24 Recently, NERC issued a new
recommendation to relax the high time-duration bound of PRC-024-2, as depicted in Figure 6(b)
(NERC 2018c), which relaxes the high-voltage bounds for short-lived overvoltages. This update
is motivated by the disconnection of PV power plants and the relatively recent publication of
IEEE 1547-2018. The purpose is to ensure that inverter-based generation will also ride through
subcycle overvoltage transients that are not included in PRC-024-2 as derived from fundamental
frequency studies (Wind Generation Task Force 2007; NERC 2016).
The PRC-024-2 standard also includes a frequency capability envelope, as shown in Figure 7.
This is of special interest for generation technologies that have rotating mechanical components.
In inverter-based generation applications, frequency might not be a suitable metric to command
inverters to trip if inverter voltages and currents remain within operational limits. This fact is
recognized in the NERC Inverter-Based Resource Performance Task Force guidelines (NERC
2018c).

a) PRC-024-2

b) Transient overvoltage ride-through envelope
Figure 6. FRT envelopes (NERC 2016)

24 Zone 1 relays protect lines from faults occurring within 0% and 90%, for example, of the total length of the
monitored line.

=== page 38 ===
27
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Figure 7. Off-nominal frequency capability envelope (NERC 2016)
As noted, standards for inverter-based generation are based on deterministic simulations of
current power systems, which are dominated by synchronous machinery. Specifically, the impact
of several severe disturbances-a transmission fault, for example-is simulated to elucidate an
envelope of operating conditions under which generation should remain connected. Note that in
these simulations, the recovery of power system voltages after disturbances is established by
regulated synchronous machine action, flexible AC transmission systems, and the response from
loads, to name a few mechanisms. Nonetheless, if a significant number of inverter-based
generation displaces synchronous machinery, such voltage recovery ability might be greatly
constrained. In contrast to synchronous generators that can supply relatively large off-nominal
currents for short periods of time, power inverters have hard current limits that could greatly
restrict the current dynamic voltage recovery capability of future power grids. In fact, studies to
derive modern voltage ride-through grid codes might no longer apply because they were derived
from the observations of conventional power system behavior. For example, inverter-based
generation might be limited to support the voltage recovery of grids with high penetrations of
motor loads, which might slow down the voltage recovery because of high inrush current (Sun et
al. 2019). Hence, inverter-based generation with grid-forming control might need to operate
under low-voltage/high-current conditions for longer times than they do today, which leads to the
following questions:
- Will modern FRT grid codes apply to power systems with high penetrations of inverter-based
generation with grid-forming controls?
- Will FRT codes need to evolve to cover bulk power systems with high penetrations of
inverter-based resources considering different fundamental behavior?
- What voltage regulation capability will inverters with grid-forming controls need to provide
to recover grid voltages after faults?
In the context of inverter-based generation with grid-forming controls, an additional technical
challenge is to ensure that these assets will be capable of satisfying future FRT grid codes (in any
form provided). To this end, it would be useful to simulate and test inverters and their controls
under extreme physical operating scenarios. This task requires a set of voltage disturbances that

=== page 39 ===
28
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
could make grid-forming controls fail. Generating this signal requires appropriate mathematical
tools. The objective would be to develop robust grid-forming control strategies that can respond
to all possible disturbances specified by FRT codes. A potential approach to solving this problem
is the application of reachability analysis. This scientific tool is instrumental for ascertaining the
dynamic performance of inverter-based generation driven by unknown-but-bounded disturbances
(Villegas Pico and Aliprantis 2014; Villegas Pico and Aliprantis 2016). It is also useful to
elucidate deleterious disturbance trajectories-terminal voltages, for example-that might drive
a dynamic system such as inverter-based generation to surpass its limits (Villegas Pico and
Aliprantis 2018).
Addressing this challenge could be critical to answering the following questions:
- What analysis tools are necessary to model the behavior of inverter-based systems with grid-
forming controls in the context of FRT code compliance?
- What set of voltage disturbance trajectories within the no-trip zone of FRT codes could lead
to the disconnection of a grid-forming control strategy?
In addition, coordination between the inverter controller and protection devices is very
important. PRC-024-02 and similar codes are commonly used to set up automated disconnection
schemes in protective relays. Unpredicted inverter controller behavior might cause problems for
the schemes, which lead to the following research questions:
- How should FRT codes be coordinated with the operation of protective relays?
- Are the assumed communications-less schemes sufficiently robust for a primary response
time period (e.g., <30 seconds)? Do communications and the integration of inverter control
and protection technology help solve the problem?
3.5 Modeling and Simulation Approaches
The traditional grid dominance of synchronous machinery has shaped today's state-of-the-art
grid analysis tools and their transient response performance. A common assumption applied to a
wide range of modern simulation tools is that a power system has a hypothetical synchronous
speed reference-i.e., center-of-inertia speed-that remains relatively close to nominal (e.g.,
rad/s) during and after a transient. Consequently, the power transmission network has been
classically represented by an abstract algebraic system in which electrical variables are sinusoids
cycling at this reference speed (hence, captured as phasors) (Sauer and Pai 1998; Guttromson
2002). This consideration is advantageous because simulations of bulk power systems with
synchronous machines can be conducted efficiently in terms of computational performance. Such
an assumption is justifiable in classic systems because synchronous machinery with relatively
large rotor inertia constants can maintain close to nominal rotor speed during and after faults.
Software that rely on this rationale include PSLF and PSS/E. This assumption is sometimes
applied to electromagnetic transient simulation tools as well because voltages and currents within
transmission lines can be considered sinusoidal functions of constant frequency (Sauer and Pai
1998). Available electromagnetic transient simulation programs to study bulk power systems
include PSCAD, CYME, and MATLAB/SIMULINK + SimPower.
Increased inverter-based generation might invalidate the constant frequency assumption because
of the lack of rotating inertia. Specifically, the cycling speed of generated voltages by inverters

=== page 40 ===
29
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
with controls such as droop and virtual oscillator control might change abruptly during faults.
This can occur because the cycling speed of these controllers depends on the instantaneous
power/current that is delivered by the power inverters. For example, AC power provided by an
inverter could be as low as zero during faults, which causes the cycling speed to significantly
deviate from nominal because of droop laws. Hence, such an operating scenario could challenge
the underlying assumptions that underpin positive-sequence simulations, which are widely used
today (Miller et al. 2003; Clark, Walling, and Miller 2011; Kosterev et al. 2008). To be able to
capture the fast inverter dynamics during transients, electromagnetic transient simulation might
be needed. Presently, some independent system operators and developers are using
electromagnetic transient simulations to study small systems with high instantaneous levels of
inverter generation.
Because of the high computational burden of large-scale electromagnetic transient simulations,
synchronous model and positive-sequence simulations will remain the main tool for bulk power
system studies in the near future. Thus, there is an important need for appropriate inverter-based
generation models for existing positive-sequence simulation tools. Currently, such models are
usually highly simplified and often are not able to accurately capture the behavior of the system.
Recently, the importance of improving the grid-following model to capture this behavior has
been recognized (Ramasubramanian et al. 2017). Similarly, this is an important issue for grid-
forming inverters. Because grid-forming controls are still in the early stage, this is an open
research question that needs to be addressed.
An additional problem when simulating inverter-based generation in power system simulations is
that the characteristics of primary energy sources, such as wind turbines and PV arrays, are
typically omitted. Incorporating these energy sources is important in a simulation because they
are useful to determining whether generation will be able to meet demand after a large transient.
Presently, positive-sequence models such as the DER_A neglect primary energy sources
(Pourbeik 2017); therefore, an analyst will be unaware of whether there will be dynamic load-
generation balancing problems after a large transient.
Another challenge in modeling inverter-based generation is that compared to synchronous
machines, many types of inverter-based generation are small, large in numbers, and connected to
the grid at the distribution level. How to best represent many heterogeneous inverter-based
generation in bulk power system simulations is an open research question (Clark, Walling, and
Miller 2011). One way to bridge this gap is to start with a small unit and design a scaling law to
model a collection of units (Khan et al. 2018a; Khan et al. 2018b; Lin et al. 2017; Purba et al.
2018). Another approach is to use system identification methods to develop gray-box models
directly at the feeder-head level.
This analysis leads to the following research questions:
- What is the appropriate inverter-based generations model for existing positive-sequence
simulation tools?
- What are the limitations of positive-sequence simulations to study the FRT of grids
dominated by inverter-based generation during large transients?
- Are the transmission model assumptions valid for studying small and large transients for
systems with high penetration levels of inverter-based generation?

=== page 41 ===
30
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- What modeling fidelity of the transmission system and inverter-based generation is
necessary/appropriate for a comprehensive study on electric grids undertaking large
transients?
- How can the speed of computation of electromagnetic transient simulation software be
increased to conduct very large power system simulations with high penetrations of inverter-
based generation?
- If aggregation is deemed necessary to increase the speed of computations, especially for
characterizing significant distribution-connected grid-following and/or grid-forming
inverters, what is the reliable aggregation approach to capture key behaviors?
- Is considering generation capacity variation and dynamics of the primary energy sources
critical for transient studies?
- How are the models and simulations validated? Have the simulations covered all the possible
contingency scenarios, especially for growth of grid-following inverter-based resources,
changing load minimum/maximum/variability conditions, or interaction with other legacy
grid devices?
- Is a field trial required and feasible for model validation?
- Is there sufficient industry availability and access to test data sets and public network
models?
An additional problem pertaining to the integration of inverter-based generation is that the
primary energy sources are variable and thus uncertain. This implies that a framework is needed
to assess uncertain dynamic simulations. This signifies that power system tools will be required
to solve ordinary differential equations and/or algebraic differential equations with uncertain
initial conditions and inputs. If uncertainties are not considered in simulations, deterministic
simulations might be unable to predict adverse dynamic behavior introduced by variable initial
conditions and inputs. At the present time, a variety of tools have been proposed that are capable
of handling uncertainties pertaining to fault clearing time (Sharma et al. 2018) and initial
conditions, such as trajectory sensitivity (Hiskens and Pai 2000), probabilistic collocation
(Hockenberry and Lesieutre 2004), semidefinite programming (Choi, Seiler, and Dhople 2017),
Lyapunov function families (Vu and Turitsyn 2016), and Taylor polynomials (Villegas Pico,
Aliprantis, and Lin 2017). A common problem with these tools is the curse of dimensionality,
which could be addressed by proper computational algorithms. The iTesla project also led an
effort in developing a toolbox for simulating uncertain power systems (iTesla 2016). These
considerations raise the following questions:
- What is an appropriate tool to handle uncertainties in inverter-based systems driven by grid-
forming controls?
- How should we deal with the computational performance within the tool?

=== page 42 ===
31
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
4 Roadmap for the Development and Deployment of
Grid-Forming Inverters
Section 3 reviewed the present state of research on power system stability, protection, and
modeling/simulation for grid-forming inverters. It outlined a wide range of open research
questions that must be addressed. This section integrates and recasts these research questions in
the form of a roadmap that discusses near- and long-term research priorities.
In the near term, significant additional research, development, and field trials of grid-forming
inverters are needed to build on and expand early, promising research findings on the
opportunities for increased grid control with inverter-based forms of generation and storage
(NERC 2018c). In the midterm, priorities will begin to shift (and in some instances have already
shifted) to focus on the opportunities for grid-forming inverters to contribute materially to the
performance of specific types of grids whose performance cannot be improved through other,
less expensive means (such as weak grids with low short-circuit strength). Through these early-
stage deployments, consensus will begin to emerge around the best ways to use grid-forming
inverters to improve grid operations and deployments will begin to standardize. At this stage,
experimentation and one-off deployments will transition to an accepted set of standard design
practices and with supporting tools that will enable widespread deployment. See Figure 8.

Figure 8. Key steps for maturing grid-forming inverter technologies
As shown in Figure 9, some small island systems are already operating at or near 100% wind and
solar, which include basic grid-forming controls supported by energy storage. The Maui, Hawaii,
system now includes both transmission and distribution assets, and it is large enough to warrant
formal coordination by the utility of the operation of utility-owned generation plants with a high
penetration of residential rooftop solar. Scaling from smaller systems such as these to more
complex grids will require a maturing of grid-forming inverter controls and power system
stability design and operations experience.
Grid-forming
inverter key
research
questions
Research and
development
Grid-forming
validation and
demonstration
Standardize
grid-forming
deployments
Tools for
practitioners
Wide grid-
forming
adoption

=== page 43 ===
32
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Source: Kroposki 2019
Figure 9. Total annual and instantaneous inverter-based wind and solar generation based on
power system size
This roadmap attempts to anticipate the transitions from development to deployment by linking
research needs to key stages in the growth of systems integration requirements for grid-forming
inverters, starting from microgrids, to island or other smaller weak grids, and eventually to entire
interconnections. This multiyear perspective recognizes that the scale and scope of the types of
power systems for which inverters will be called on to provide grid-forming services will and
should begin modestly. Specifically, it recognizes that the dominant form of inverter control
today is grid-following and that future power systems will involve a mix of inverter-based
sources with both grid-following and grid-forming control. Growth over time will be paced or
enabled by how well grid-forming inverters perform and what advantages they bring. This
recognition, in turn, establishes a natural sequence of priorities for the research questions that we
must address.
Figure 10 conceptualizes the early multiyear activities. Present efforts map to this roadmap for
understanding grid-forming trends and focusing on key grid stability and systems integration
areas. As research challenges are resolved, this will lead to lab demonstrations and then field
trials, with early deployments for challenging grid conditions such as 100% renewable
microgrids or weak grid scenarios on area power systems. With enough industry experience, this
will translate into early standards work and the beginning of uniform deployments for grid-
forming inverter-based resources.

=== page 44 ===
33
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Figure 10. Multiyear systems integration activities for grid-forming inverter-based resources
Scaling applications of grid-forming inverters from microgrids to large interconnections is
addressed in the subsequent subsections. We conclude with short descriptions of two specific
near-term research priorities: the review of regulatory and technical standards and the
development of advanced modeling techniques. These priorities are foundational. We
recommend immediate pursuit of them in parallel with and in direct support of the research
outlined by our multiyear perspective. We also note that the timeline should reflect a
conservative estimate of how technological development is likely to occur. Note that this might
depart from actual renewable penetration levels, which are increasing rapidly and might outpace
our anticipated timeline. This mismatch highlights the urgency for increased research activities
within the grid-forming domain.
4.1 From Microgrids to Isolated Power Systems to Continental-Scale
Power Systems
Replacing synchronous machines with grid-forming inverters at the transmission level will, in
general, be the most mature iteration of grid-forming usage. This phase has a relatively long
timeline (~10-30 years) and will be achieved only once a research base of protection, controls,
and interoperability has been established and a robust standards environment defining the
required functionality of grid-forming inverters on the bulk grid exists.
In other words, the maturation process of grid-forming inverters will most likely unfold in a
staged approach with lessons learned as well as operational experience and expertise gained
throughout many years. Microgrid research during the past 20 years has already demonstrated
that grid-forming microgrids are feasible in various settings-see, for example, the CERTS
microgrid test bed in Lasseter et al. (2011). Also, we are now seeing the emergence of early-
stage grid-forming inverters as a solution in islanded microgrids with high penetrations of
renewable generation, such as Kauai, Hawaii. Demonstrating operations and reliability in these
contexts provides the knowledge base and confidence required to incorporate grid-forming
controls into larger electric grids. Bulk system grid planners and operators are already starting to
Present
-Early trends in grid-
forming applications
-Identify research
challenges in:
-Voltage control
-Frequency control
-System protection
-System recovery
-Modeling and
simulation.
1-3 years
-Solve research
challenges
-Develop grid-forming
hardware, software,
and controls
-Develop grid-forming-
based grid controls
-Lab testing and
evaluation
-Identify grid-forming
integration challenges
for demonstration.
3-6 years
-Microgrids to island
grids grid-forming
demonstration
-Solve system
integration challenges
-Demonstration in weak
grids/bulk grid
-Demonstrate grid-
forming grid controls
-Draft standards.
>6 years
-Establish technical
standards for grid-
forming
-Standardize grid-
forming inverter models
-Begin adaptation of
grid-forming inverters
for standard operation
in bulk grids.

=== page 45 ===
34
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
consider their need for weaker portions within the North American interconnections (NERC
2018c). Short seasonal or situational operating times with instantaneous periods of high inverter-
based resources will be the initial focus areas.
To pave the way for integrating increasing amounts grid-forming-controlled generation with
decreasing amounts of synchronous generation in the bulk grid, several practical and small-scale
applications of grid-forming inverters will need to be realized. Each implementation of grid-
forming inverters provides practical knowledge about their use and operations, answers research
questions, and brings new questions to the fore. A particularly challenging set of issues will
involve adaptations or modifications to existing bulk power system control approaches-all of
which have been based on comparatively slower acting electromechanical sources-to take
advantage of the much faster acting control that is possible with inverter-based sources.
The industry needs design evaluation and validation for grid-forming inverters. Robust design
processes and stakeholder engagement therefore require:
- Definition: Inverter manufacturer and power systems/utility engineer agreement on
grid-forming definition and high-level capabilities. As highlighted at a high level in
Section 2, clearer demarcations are needed for grid-following versus grid-forming
capabilities.
- Requirements specification: A stakeholder-derived list of device/component, packages,
and technology requirements for grid-forming inverters (and/or plant controllers) for
generation plant application-level requirements. A stakeholder-derived list of power
system requirements for integrating the grid-forming device(s) into the area power
system for secure operation.
- Functional specification: The requirements specifications list should be mapped to the
functional design requirements and development needs for (1) the inverters, (2) any
plant supervisory controls, and (3) upgrades or development to the area power system.
Functional specification should consider systems integration issues, such as inverter
fault current contribution and existing/proposed protection schemes, especially for
unbalanced conditions.
- Modeling and simulation: Modeling and simulation of the grid-forming inverter-based
resource and area power system must be used to evaluate and ensure that functional
specifications meet target power system reliability and resilience requirements. Models
should consider contingency operation and system end-to-end performance. Simulation
results should correlate with subsequent testing and validation.
- Testing and validation: Testing and validation should test the grid-forming capabilities
against the functional specifications and proceed through robust system end-to-end
testing. Testing should start with factory acceptance tests, proceed to preproduction site
acceptance testing (possibly including hardware-in-the-loop testing) and production site
acceptance testing, and then to commissioning testing.
- Disseminating results: Industry will need to inform the design and testing; thus, the
results of this process should be shared and debated. This will accelerate early
standardization of grid-forming capabilities.

Grid-forming implementation will most likely occur through phased implementations of grid-
forming inverters, starting with smaller, more constrained microgrids and eventually moving

=== page 46 ===
35
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
toward larger grids (Figure 11). Even within application areas, phased implementation is likely
to take place, with initial grid-forming implementation being seasonal or taking place during
situational periods when additional firm sources are needed (e.g., instantaneous inverter-based
generation periods or to provide voltage regulation under local, specific contingencies) before
the widespread adoption of grid-forming-dominated systems. Therefore, there is a staging of
implementation between different usage levels as well as stages of usage within application areas
(denoted by a color gradient within an application area).

Figure 11. Incorporating grid-forming (GFM) controls into the bulk electric grid will take place
gradually after key functionalities have been demonstrated and confidence has been gained by
operating them in smaller microgrids and island power systems.
We are currently seeing (and will continue to see for the foreseeable future) the incorporation of
grid-forming inverters in island microgrid environments. These microgrids, which are already
being incorporated in a variety of areas (for example, rural villages in Alaska, university
campuses, and military bases) run hybrid diesel-renewable grids with grid-forming inverters on
energy storage. As the technology of grid-forming inverters matures, we will begin to see the
emergence of 100% grid-forming islanded microgrids with scalable multi-inverter, multiple grid-
forming-based architectures, and energy sources. Such microgrids, although small, can still
provide a wealth of practical knowledge in the deployment of grid-forming inverters. Issues that
can be examined in such environments include:
- Distribution protection
- Fault ride-through
- Frequency/voltage support
- Interoperability with a few (<10) rotational machines, other grid-forming inverters, and grid-
following controls
GFM in
bulk grids
10-30 years
Instantaneous GFM challenges
in weak portions of bulk grids.
WECC, ERCOT, etc.
3+ years
GFM in larger island grids.
3-15 years
Instantaneous GFM challenges in island grids.
Puerto Rico, Hawaii, etc.
1+ years
GFM in microgrids
Rural villages, millitary bases, university campuses, community microgrids, etc.
Present-10 years

=== page 47 ===
36
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- Differences in grid-forming operation for various primary energy sources on the back-end
source (e.g., battery, solar, and wind).
As the technology for grid-forming-based microgrids mature, grid-forming-based
implementations will begin to appear in larger island grid settings (3-15 years), such as in
Hawaii and the Caribbean. These grids have a larger number of interoperating sources and loads,
are geographically larger, and exhibit much larger and more complex behavior compared to site-
level microgrids. Additionally, although site-level islanded microgrids are primarily built at
distribution-level voltages, many island grids have subtransmission-level voltages.
One pressing issue is the increase in grid-connected PV sources using grid-following inverters
and the resulting difficulty of keeping frequency within bounds. The emerging frequency issues
on the Hawaiian island of Oahu are directly attributed to the penetration level of grid-following
inverters. This is happening now, independent of a full understanding of the grid-forming
technology (El Khatib, Wei, and Lasseter 2018). Hence, tools and study cases need to be
developed to bring more understanding to the issues experienced at Oahu and in the Caribbean.
Other specific issues that will be demonstrated in this context are:
- Subtransmission protection
- Interoperability with some (<100) rotational machines, other grid-forming inverters, and
grid-following controls dispersed over an island-scale geographic area
- Upgrading existing grid-following inverters to have grid-forming capability
- Stability analysis.
Validations through these comparatively smaller grids will contribute to the irreplaceable field
and operational experience, along with supporting technical requirements and standards, needed
to guide the large-scale implementation of grid-forming inverters within large interconnected,
high-voltage transmission grids. These implementations will begin piecemeal and respond to
specific operational problems created by increased inverter-based generation (relative to
synchronous generation), such as the need to shore up weaker regions within the interconnection
(7-20 years). Although operations in smaller grids will provide key insights about operational
practices and interoperability, some fundamental research gaps still exist preventing widespread
implementation on large grids that are currently dominated by synchronous machines. These
include:
- Transmission protection
- Interoperability with many (>1,000) rotational machines, other grid-forming inverters, and
grid-following controls dispersed throughout a continental area
- Bulk system stability.
4.2 The Need to Establish a Technical Standards Environment for
Grid-Forming Inverters
Because grid-forming inverters exhibit voltage source-like behavior, they have distinct behaviors
that imply a need for tailored standards. For instance, existing IEEE 1547 standards for
distribution-level assets emphasize current harmonics limits, reactive power limits, and anti-
islanding functions. In contrast, grid-forming units are predominantly used for voltage regulation

=== page 48 ===
37
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
instead of current regulation, reactive power can vary for voltage support, and grid-forming
inverters natively provide uninterrupted power during islanded conditions.25
The following aspects should be considered in the context of ongoing efforts to modernize
standards for grid-connected inverters within IEEE, the International Electrotechnical
Commission, FERC, and NERC-see NERC (2018c) for an example of ongoing modernization
efforts:
- Current versus voltage waveform quality: Under the existing regulatory paradigm, inverters
are controlled to inject sinusoidal currents with minimal harmonic content. This aligns with
prevailing practices in which harmonics demanded by nonlinear loads are provided by
machines and reactive components, whereas inverters inject only 60-Hz components. If
machines are displaced by grid-forming inverters, however, then inverters will need to
provide these current harmonics, which some loads will require. In the future, the primary
function of inverters will be to provide well-regulated system voltages for loads. The
challenge is to devise a set of standards that emphasizes voltage control while recognizing
the physical current-carrying limits of inverters.
- Standards for Q-V droop functions: Industry practice is largely predicated on grid-following
inverters that operate at or near unity power factor. In recent years, this constraint has been
relaxed with slow-acting volt-VAR controls that are intended to support system voltages. As
machines are gradually displaced by grid-forming inverters, the burden of satisfying reactive
power demanded by loads will shift further toward these inverters. In this future scenario,
grid-forming inverters must be allowed to respond according to their autonomously executed
and fast-acting Q-V droop functions to simultaneously satisfy loads and support system
voltages. These Q-V droop functions for grid-forming inverters are distinct from the volt-
VAR standards currently in place.
- Rethinking unintentional islanding functions: Because a grid-following inverter needs a well-
defined voltage at its terminals, it can function in islanded settings only under specific
conditions (e.g., inverter power must match load demand before the system is islanded).
Because grid-forming inverters act like voltage sources, they generally continue operating
during islanded conditions. This behavior departs from the existing regulatory framework.
Future standards must reconcile the following questions:
o How can distribution engineers de-energize systems before carrying out
maintenance?
o Should islanded subsystems within a larger grid remain energized to enhance
reliability and facilitate a system black-start?

25 If the cumulative capacity of grid-forming inverters on a system exceeds the load, islanded operation can be
sustained.

=== page 49 ===
38
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
4.3 The Need to Begin Developing Appropriate Models for Existing
Simulation Tools as Well as Enhanced Modeling and Simulation
Tools
Modern state-of-the-art grid analysis tools have been tailored toward grids dominated by
synchronous machines. A widely adopted assumption within these tools is that the synchronous
speed of power systems remains relatively close to nominal during and after a transient;
however, this widely adopted assumption might not be valid in systems with high penetrations of
inverter-based generation because they lack synchronously connected rotor inertia. Hence,
researching appropriate modeling and simulation tools that are suitable to study the transition
from machine-based systems to inverter-based ones is a high priority. In fact, some independent
system operators and developers require this capability immediately, highlighting the importance
and urgency of appropriate modeling and simulation tools.
Another important challenge is to simulate inverter controllers as implemented in the field to
accurately predict undesirable performance. This problem was highlighted during the recent Blue
Cut Fire, Canyon Fire 2, and subsequent events, where disconnections of inverters were not
predicted by current simulation (NERC 2017; NERC 2018a). This problem can extend to the
future incorporation of inverters with grid-forming controls; hence, appropriate models for
existing transient simulation tools should be implemented.
Other modeling and simulation challenges include:
- How can we represent a large number of distribution-connected inverters? How can we
include primary renewable energy source models?
- What is necessary to reduce the bulk power system simulation computation burden with
added inverter-based generation?
- How are the models and simulations validated? Have the simulations covered all the possible
contingency scenarios, especially for growth of grid-following inverter-based resources,
changing load minimum/maximum/variability conditions, or interaction with other legacy
grid devices?
- When are field trials required and when are they feasible for model validation?
- How can we ensure robust industry availability and access to test data sets and public
network models?

=== page 50 ===
39
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
5 Conclusions
This report is intended to provide a comprehensive analysis of the challenges in integrating
inverter-based resources and offer recommendations on potential technology pathways to inform
the academic community, industry, and government research organizations. This roadmap
attempted to envision the key short- and long-term research-and-development needs for inverter-
based resource grid-forming controls, protection, and modeling as part of hybrid grids. For the
next decade and beyond, the large interconnections in North America will comprise both
electromechanical and inverter-based resources. Inverter-based, grid-forming resources will be
necessary for the stable operation of the bulk power grid. An ongoing assessment of system
performance and grid-forming inverter evolution will be needed.
Additional short-term and long-term roadmapping will be needed for detailed inverter-based
resource performance, including from distributed energy resources, during contingency events. A
key example is inverter-based resource and grid-forming capabilities to support black-start.
Small but megawatt-scale challenges are already emerging (Walton 2019). Ongoing
roadmapping is needed for a systems perspective given the complexity of these contingency
events and lack of industry experience with inverter-based, grid-forming generation.
Detailed system performance metrics will need to be developed that support analyzing this
transition. Technology and system roadmaps will need to be created that address technology
development, validation, and maturity assessment. These metrics will need to balance the
physical performance metrics of hybrid grids with expected improved performance from all
generators. Inverter-based resources are capable of faster and more effective grid-support
capabilities compared to traditional synchronous generation with electromechanical limits
(Loutan et al. 2017). The capabilities of synchronous generators are expected to evolve for better
use in conjunction with inverter-based resources. Future roadmapping efforts will need to
forecast this evolution to assess how each generator type might evolve for the transitioning grid.
Transitioning to even more inverter-based resources could eventually necessitate establishing a
roadmap for 100% power electronics grids ranging from large island grids to weak portions of
the bulk grids. This future roadmap could leverage the learning and experiences from
instantaneous, high-penetration periods of inverter-based resources. One hundred percent power
electronics grids would be based on the physical properties and control responses of inverter and
converter systems in conjunction with expanded use of DC interconnections. These challenges
stem from the recognition that there is no established body of experience for operating hybrid
AC-to-DC power electronics-based power systems at the scale of today's North American
interconnections. System design as well as steady-state and contingency operations research and
development of 100% power electronics grids will be necessary, and this should be based on a
robust roadmap of systems technology development and testing.
Future assessment and roadmapping will also need to address the many areas beyond the scope
of this report that more broadly correlate to long-term grid modernization efforts. For instance,
future evaluation is needed on the following topics: distribution system engineering and
operations for grid-forming inverter controls, a grid of microgrids and effective dynamic
islanding topology solutions, unintentional islanding on distribution grids, evolution of sensing
and communications systems-including more effective use of synchrophasors (e.g., phasor

=== page 51 ===
40
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
measurement units) -considering growth of power electronics-based loads and their control,
various other power quality issues (e.g., harmonics), hybrid AC-to-DC systems, system costs
analysis, economic dispatch, system adequacy and reserves assessments for power electronics
dominated grids, traditional security evaluation (i.e., contingency analysis, black-start), market
design, economic regulation, and cybersecurity. Power system stability and protection are
foundational technical issues, and these characteristics are central to our discussion of grid-
forming inverters, so it is our hope that this roadmap becomes a cornerstone for future work on
power systems modernization.

=== page 52 ===
41
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
References
Alatrash, H., et al. 2012. "Generator Emulation Controls for Photovoltaic Inverters." IEEE
Transactions on Smart Grid 3.2: 996-1011.
Alegria, E., T. Brown, E. Minear, and R.H. Lasseter. 2014." CERTS Microgrid Demonstration
with Large-Scale Energy Storage and Renewable Generation." IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid
5, no. 2: 937-943.
Altuve Ferrer, H., and E.O. Schweitzer III. 2010. Modern Solutions for Protection, Control and
Monitoring of Electric Power Systems. Pullman, WA: Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories,
Quality Books, Inc.
Alvidrez, J., S. Ranade, S. Brahma, S. Bukowski, C.S. Monroy, and A. Ellis. 2016. "An
Analytical Model of a Single Phase DQ-Controlled Inverter for Power System Short-Circuit
Calculations." Paper presented at the 2016 North American Power Symposium (NAPS).
Beck, H.-P., and R. Hesse. 2007. "Virtual Synchronous Machine." Proceedings of the Electrical
Power Quality and Utilisation (EPQU 2007), 9th International Conference. Piscataway, NJ:
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Chakraborty, S., A. Hoke, and B. Lundstrom. 2015. "Evaluation of Multiple Inverter Volt-Var
Control Interactions with Realistic Grid Impedances." Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE Power
Energy Society General Meeting. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers.
Chandorkar, M.C., D.M. Divan, and R. Adapa. 1993. "Control of Parallel Connected Inverters in
Standalone ac Supply Systems." IEEE Transactions on Industrial Applications 29, no. 1
(January/February).
Choi, H., P.J. Seiler, and S.V. Dhople. 2017. "Propagating Uncertainty in Power-System DAE
Models with Semidefinite Programming." IEEE Transactions on Power Systems 32, no. 4:
3146-3156.
Clark, K., R.A. Walling, and N.W. Miller. 2011. "Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Plant Models in
PSLF." Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting. Piscataway,
NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1-5.
Colombino, M., D. Groß, and F. Dörfler. 2017. "Global Phase and Voltage Synchronization for
Power Inverters: A Decentralized Consensus-Inspired Approach." Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE
56th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC). Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers.
Dallachy, J.L., and I. Tait. 2002. "Guidance Note for the Connection of Wind Farms." 2.2.2, SP
Transmission and Distribution, Scottish Hydro-Electric.
Dhople, S.V., B.B. Johnson, and A.O. Hamadeh. 2013. "Virtual Oscillator Control for Voltage
Source Inverters." Communication, Control, and Computing (Allerton), Proceedings of the 2013

=== page 53 ===
42
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
IEEE 51st Annual Allerton Conference. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers.
Dong, S., and Y.C. Chen. 2017. "Adjusting Synchronverter Dynamic Response Speed via
Damping Correction Loop." IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion 32: 608-619.
El Khatib, M., D. Wei, and R. Lasseter. 2018. "Evaluation of Inverter-Based Grid Frequency
Support Using Frequency-Watt and Grid-Forming PV Inverters." Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE
Power and Energy Society General Meeting. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers, 1-5.
Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI). 2014. Impact of Renewables on System Protection:
Frequency Domain Short-Circuit Models of Converter Interfaced Renewables and Guidelines for
Protection Studies (3002002810). Palo Alto, CA.
---. 2017a. Advanced Short-Circuit Modeling, Analysis and Protection Schemes Design for
Systems with Renewables-TVA Case Study: Revision of Line Distance Protection Schemes
Using Detailed Models for Renewables and Digital Relays in Electromagnetic Transient
Programs (30020109507). Palo Alto, CA.
---. 2017b. Impact of Renewables on System Protection: Short-Circuit Phasor Models of
Renewables and Impact of Renewables on Power Swing Detection and Distance Protection. Palo
Alto, CA.
---. 2017c. System Protection Guidelines for Systems with High Levels of Renewables:
Impact of Wind & Solar Generation on Negative-Sequence and Power Swing Protection
(3002010937). Palo Alto, CA.
Erickson, M.J., T.M. Jahns, and R.H. Lasseter. 2012. "Improved Power Control Bandwidth of
Grid-Forming Sources in a CERTS Microgrid." Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE Energy
Conversion Congress and Exposition. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, 2366-2373.
Erlich, I., T. Neumann, F. Shewarega, P. Schegner, and J. Meyer. 2013. "Wind Turbine Negative
Sequence Current Control and its Effect on Power System Protection." Proceedings of the IEEE
Power and Energy Society General Meeting. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers, 1-5.
Fairley, P. 2003. "Steady as She Blows." IEEE Spectrum 40.8 (August): 35-39.
Farantatos, E., U. Karaagac, H. Saad, and J. Mahseredjian. 2013. "Short-Circuit Current
Contribution of Converter Interfaced Wind Turbines and the Impact on System Protection."
Paper presented at the 2013 Bulk Power Systems Dynamics and Control - IX (IREP),
Rethymnon, Crete, Greece, August 25-30.
Farivar, M., L. Chen, and S. Low. 2013. "Equilibrium and Dynamics of Local Voltage Control in
Distribution Systems." Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE 52nd Annual Decision and Control
(CDC). Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 4329-4334.

=== page 54 ===
43
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). 2005. "Interconnection for Wind Energy."
FERC Order 661-A, December. http://www.ferc.gov.
---. 2016. "Reactive Power Requirements for Non-Synchronous Generation." FERC Std.
Order No. 827, June, docket No. RM16-1-000.
Fischer, M., and A. Mendonca. 2012. "Representation of Variable Speed Full Conversion Wind
Energy Converters for Steady-State Short-Circuit Calculations." Proceedings of the IEEE Power
and Energy Society Transmission & Distribution Conference & Exposition. Piscataway, NJ:
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Fu, Q., A. Nasiri, A. Solanki, A. Bani-Ahmed, L. Weber, and V. Bhavaraju. 2015. "Microgrids:
Architectures, Controls, Protection, and Demonstration." Electric Power Components and
Systems 43 no. 12: 1453-1465.
Gers, J.M., and J. Ariza. 2008. "Operation Simulation of OOS Relays Using COMTRADE Files
and Transient Stability Analysis."
Golestan, S., J.M. Guerrero, and J.C. Vasquez. 2017. "Three-Phase PLLs: A Review of Recent
Advances." IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics 32 no. 3: 1894-1907.
Guerrero, J.M., et al. 2011. "Hierarchical Control of Droop-Controlled AC and DC Microgrids-
A General Approach Toward Standardization." IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics 58
no. 1: 158-172.
Guttromson, R.T. 2002. "Modeling Distributed Energy Resource Dynamics on the Transmission
System." IEEE Transactions on Power Systems 17 no. 4 (November): 1148-53.
Hart, P.J., R.H. Lasseter, and T.M. Jahns. 2016. "Symmetric Droop Control for Improved Hybrid
AC/DC Microgrid Transient Performance." Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Energy Conversion
Congress and Exposition (ECCE). Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers.
Hartono, B.S., and R. Setiabudy. 2013. "Review of Microgrid Technology." Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Quality in Research. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers, 127-132.
Hiskens, I.A., and M.A. Pai. 2000. "Trajectory Sensitivity Analysis of Hybrid Systems." IEEE
Transactions in Circuits and Systems 47 no. 2 (February): 204-220.
Hockenberry, J., and B. Lesieutre. 2004. "Evaluation of Uncertainty in Dynamic Simulations of
Power System Models: The Probabilistic Collocation Method." IEEE Transactions on Power
Systems 19 no. 3 (August): 1483-1491.
Hoke, A.F., M. Shirazi, S., Chakraborty, E., Muljadi, and D. Maksimovic. 2017. "Rapid Active
Power Control of Photovoltaic Systems for Grid Frequency Support." IEEE Journal of Emerging
and Selected Topics in Power Electronics 5 no. 3: 1154-1163.

=== page 55 ===
44
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Howard, D.F. 2013. "Short-Circuit Currents in Wind-Turbine Generator Networks." Ph.D. diss.,
Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology.
Howard, D.F., J. Liang, and R.G. Harley. 2014. "Short-Circuit Modeling of DFIGs with
Uninterrupted Control." IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics 2
no. 1 (March): 47-57.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Power and Energy Society (PES) Joint
Working Group. 2013. Fault Current Contributions from Wind Plants. Piscataway, NJ: Institute
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). 2018a. "IEEE 1547 Standard for
Interconnection and Interoperability of Distributed Energy Resources with Associated Electric
Power Systems Interfaces."
---. 2008b. "C37.2 IEEE Standard Electrical Power System Device Function Numbers,
Acronyms, and Contact Designations."
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)/North American Electric Reliability
Corporation (NERC) Task Force on Short-Circuit and System Performance Impact of Inverter
Based Generation. 2018. Impact of Inverter Based Generation on Bulk Power System Dynamics
and Short-Circuit Performance. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers.
iTesla. 2016. "The project framework and ambitions." http://www.itesla-project.eu/project.html.
Johnson, B., S. Dhople, A. Hamadeh, and P. Krein. 2014. "Synchronization of Parallel Single-
Phase Inverters Using Virtual Oscillator Control." IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics
29.11 (November): 6124-6138.
Johnson, B.B., et al. 2016a. "Synthesizing Virtual Oscillators to Control Islanded Inverters."
IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics 31 no. 8: 6002-6015.
Johnson, B.B., et al. 2017. "Comparison of Virtual Oscillator and Droop Control." Proceedings
of the 2017 IEEE Control and Modeling for Power Electronics (COMPEL). Piscataway, NJ:
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Johnson, J., J. Neely, J. Delhotal, S. Gonzalez, and M. Lave. 2016b. "Photovoltaic Frequency-
Watt Curve Design for Frequency Regulation and Fast Contingency Reserves." IEEE Journal of
Photovoltaics 6 no. 6 (November): 1611-1618.
Karaagac, U., T. Kauffmann, I. Kocar, H. Gras, J. Mahseredjian, B. Cetindag, and E. Farantatos.
2015. "Phasor Domain Modeling of Type-IV Wind Turbine Generator for Protection Studies."
Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting. Piscataway, NJ:
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Katiraei, F., M.R. Iravani, and P.W. Lehn. 2005. "Micro-Grid Autonomous Operation During
and Subsequent to Islanding Process." IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery 20 no. 1: 248-257.

=== page 56 ===
45
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Kauffmann, T., U. Karaagac, I. Kocar, H. Gras, J. Mahseredjian, B. Cetindag, and E. Farantatos.
2015. "Phasor Domain Modeling of Type-III Wind Turbine Generator for Protection Studies."
Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting. Piscataway, NJ:
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Khan, M.M.S., Y. Lin, B. Johnson, M. Sinha, and S. Dhople. 2018a. "Stability Assessment of a
System Comprising a Single Machine and a Virtual Oscillator Controlled Inverter with Scalable
Ratings." Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE 44th Industrial Electronics Society IECON. Piscataway,
NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 4057-4062.
Khan, M.M.S., Y. Lin, B. Johnson, V. Purba, M. Sinha, and S. Dhople. 2018b. "A Reduced-
Order Aggregated Model for Parallel Inverter Systems with Virtual Oscillator Control."
Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE 19th Workshop on Control and Modeling for Power Electronics
(COMPEL). Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1-6.
Kocar, I., T. Kauffmann, U. Karaagac, J. Mahseredjian, and E. Farantatos. 2014. "Phasor
Domain Modeling of Full-Scale Frequency Converters for Protection Studies." Paper presented
at the 4th International Workshop on Integration of Solar Power into Power Systems, Berlin,
Germany, November 2014.
Kosterev, D., A. Meklin, J. Undrill, B. Lesieutre, W. Price, D. Chassin, R. Bravo, and S. Yang.
2008. "Load Modeling in Power System Studies: WECC Progress Update." Proceedings of the
IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting-Conversion and Delivery of Electrical
Energy in the 21st Century. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1-
8.
Kroposki, B., B. Johnson, Y.C. Zhang, V. Gevorgian, P. Denholm, B.-M. Hodge, and B.
Hannegan. 2017. "Achieving a 100% Renewable Grid: Operating Electric Power Systems with
Extremely High Levels of Variable Renewable Energy." IEEE Power and Energy Magazine, 15
no. 2: 61-73.
Kroposki, B. 2019. Updated figure from "Summarizing the Technical Challenges of High Levels
of Inverter-based Resources in Power Grids." Presentation at University of Washington
conference: Grid-forming Inverters for Low-inertia Power Systems.
https://lowinertiagrids.ece.uw.edu/
Kundur, P., et al. 2004. "Definition and Classification of Power System Stability." IEEE
Transactions on Power Systems 19 no. 2: 1387-1401.
Kundur, P., N.J. Balu, and M.G. Lauby. 1994. Power System Stability and Control, Vol. 7. New
York: McGraw-Hill.
Lasseter, R., et al. 2002. Integration of Distributed Energy Resources: The CERTS Microgrid
Concept. Berkeley, CA: Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
Lasseter, R.H. 1998. "Control of Distributed Resources." Proceedings of the 1998 International
Conference on Bulk Power Systems Dynamics and Control IV-Restructuring. 323-330.

=== page 57 ===
46
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Lasseter, R.H., and P. Piagi. 2004. "Microgrid: A Conceptual Solution." Proceedings of the 2004
IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference Aachen, Germany, Vol. 6. Piscataway, NJ:
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 20-25.
Lasseter, R.H., J.H. Eto, B. Schenkman, J. Stevens, H. Vollkommer, D. Klapp, E. Linton, Hector
Hurtado, and J. Roy. 2011. "CERTS Microgrid Laboratory Test Bed." IEEE Transactions on
Power Delivery 26, no. 1: 325-332.
Lin, Y., B. Johnson, V. Gevorgian, V. Purba, and S. Dhople. 2017. "Stability Assessment of a
System Comprising a Single Machine and Inverter with Scalable Ratings." Paper presented at the
2017 North American Power Symposium (NAPS), 1-6.
Loutan, C., Klauer, P., Chowdhury, S., Hall, S., Morjaria, M., Chadliev, V., Milam, N., Milan, C.
and Gevorgian, V., 2017. Demonstration of essential reliability services by a 300-MW solar
photovoltaic power plant (No. NREL/TP-5D00-67799). National Renewable Energy Laboratory:
Golden, CO.
Lu, M., M. Sinha, G. Seo, B. Johnson, and S. Dhople. 2018. "Adaptation of Commercial
Current-Controlled Inverters for Operation with Virtual Oscillator Control." Proceedings of the
2018 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers.
Mahmood, H., D. Michaelson, and J. Jiang. 2015. "Accurate Reactive Power Sharing in an
Islanded Microgrid Using Adaptive Virtual Impedances." IEEE Transactions on Power
Electronics 30 no. 3: 1605-1617.
Martinez, J., P.C. Kjar, P. Rodriguez, and R. Teodorescu. 2011. "Short-Circuit Signatures from
Different Wind Turbine Generator Types." Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE Power Systems
Conference and Exposition. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Miller, N.W., J.J. Sanchez-Gasca, W.W. Price, and R.W. Delmerico. 2003. "Dynamic Modeling
of GE 1.5- and 3.6-MW Wind Turbine-Generators for Stability Simulations." Proceedings of the
2003 IEEE Power Engineering Society General Meeting. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers, 1977-1983.
Natarajan, V., and G. Weiss. 2017. "Synchronverters with Better Stability Due to Virtual
Inductors, Virtual Capacitors and Anti-Windup." IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics
64: 5994-6004.
North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC). 2013. NERC System Protection and
Control Subcommittee Report. Protection System Response to Power Swings. Atlanta, GA.
---. 2016. "Std. PRC-024-2: Generator Frequency and Voltage Protective Relay Settings."
Atlanta, GA.
---. 2017a. State of Reliability 2017. Atlanta, GA.

=== page 58 ===
47
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
---. 2017. 1200 MW Fault Induced Solar Photovoltaic Resource Interruption Disturbance
Report. Atlanta, GA.
https://www.nerc.com/pa/rrm/ea/1200_MW_Fault_Induced_Solar_Photovoltaic_Resource_/120
0_MW_Fault_Induced_Solar_Photovoltaic_Resource_Interruption_Final.pdf.
---. 2018a. "Inverter-Based Resource Disturbance Analysis - Key Findings and
Recommendations." Presented via webinar, February 2018.
---. 2018b. 900 MW Fault Induced Solar Photovoltaic Resource Interruption Disturbance
Report. Atlanta, GA.
---. 2018c. Reliability Guideline: BPS-Connected Inverter-Based Resource Performance.
Atlanta, GA.
---. 2019. Reliability Guideline: Improvements to Interconnection Requirements for BPS-
Connected Inverter-Based Resources. Atlanta, GA.
Pourbeik, P. 2017. "DER_A Model."
https://www.nerc.com/comm/PC/LoadModelingTaskForceDL/LMTF_DER_A_041817.pdf.
Purba, V., B.B. Johnson, M. Rodriguez, S. Jafarpour, F. Bullo, and S. Dhople. 2018. "Reduced-
Order Aggregate Model for Parallel-Connected Single-Phase Inverters." IEEE Transactions on
Energy Conversion.
Rahmani, M., Y. Herriot, C. Guyon-Aubert, D. Gualino, A. Dentella, S. Lechat-Sanjuan, and G.
Gandanegara. 2017. "Control Method of a Virtual Generator" (Patent No. 20170235322).
Ramasubramanian, D., Z. Yu, R. Ayyanar, V. Vittal, and J. Undrill. 2017. "Converter Model for
Representing Converter Interfaced Generation in Large Scale Grid Simulations." IEEE
Transactions on Power Systems 32, no. 1 (January): 765-773.
Sadamoto, T., A. Chakrabortty, T. Ishizaki, and J. Imura. 2019. "Dynamic Modeling, Stability,
and Control of Power Systems with Distributed Energy Resources: Handling Faults Using Two
Control Methods in Tandem." IEEE Control Systems Magazine 39, no. 2 (April): 34-65.
Sauer, P.W., and M.A. Pai. 1998. "Power System Dynamics and Stability." Urbana.
Seguin, R., J. Woyak, D. Costyk, J., Hambrick, and B. Mather. 2016. High-Penetration PV
Integration Handbook for Distribution Engineers (NREL/TP-5D00-63114). Golden, CO:
National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
Seo, G.-S., et al. 2018. "Dispatchable Virtual Oscillator Control for Decentralized Inverter-
dominated Power Systems: Analysis and Experiments" (arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.08842).
Shafiee, Q., J.M. Guerrero, and J.C. Vasquez. 2014. "Distributed Secondary Control for Islanded
Microgrids-A Novel Approach." IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics 29 no. 2: 1018-
1031.

=== page 59 ===
48
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Sharma, S., S. Pushpak, V. Chinde, and I. Dobson. 2018. "Sensitivity of Transient Stability
Critical Clearing Time." IEEE Transactions on Power Systems 33, no. 6 (November): 6476-
6486.
Simpson-Porco, J.W., et al. 2015. "Secondary Frequency and Voltage Control of Islanded
Microgrids via Distributed Averaging." IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics 62 no. 11:
7025-7038.
Sun, H., et al. 2019. "Review of Challenges and Research Opportunities for Voltage Control in
Smart Grids." IEEE Transactions on Power Systems 34, no. 4: 2790-2801.
Teodorescu, R., M. Liserre, and P. Rodriguez. 2011. Grid Converters for Photovoltaic and Wind
Power Systems. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers/Wiley.
Tsili, M., and S. Papathanassiou. 2009. "A Review of Grid Code Technical Requirements for
Wind Farms." IET Renewable Power Generation 3 no. 3 (September): 308-332.
Ulbig, A., T.S. Borsche, and G. Andersson. 2014. "Impact of Low Rotational Inertia on Power
System Stability and Operation." Proceedings of the 2014 IFAC 47 no. 3: 7290-7297.
Villegas Pico, H.N., and D.C. Aliprantis. 2014. "Voltage Ride-Through Capability Verification
of Wind Turbines with Fully-Rated Inverters Using Reachability Analysis." IEEE Transactions
on Energy Conversion 29, no. 2 (June): 392-405.
---. 2016. "Voltage Ride-Through Capability Verification of DFIG-Based Wind Turbines
Using Reachability analysis." IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion 31 no. 4 (December):
1387-1398.
---. 2018. "Reachability Analysis of Linear Dynamic Systems with Constant, Arbitrary, and
Lipschitz Continuous Inputs." Automatica 95 (September): 293-305.
Villegas Pico, H.N., D.C. Aliprantis, and X. Lin. 2017. "Transient Stability Assessment of Power
Systems with Uncertain Renewable Generation," Proceedings of 2017 IREP Symposium-Bulk
Power System Dynamics and Control-X, Espinho, Portugal, August 27-September 1, 2017.
Vu, T.L., and K. Turitsyn. 2016. "Lyapunov Functions Family Approach to Transient Stability
Assessment." IEEE Transactions on Power Systems 31 no. 2 (March): 1269-1277.
Walling, R.A., E. Gursoy, and B. English. 2012. "Current Contribution from Type III and Type
IV Wind Turbine Generators During Faults." Proceedings of the IEEE Transmission and
Distribution Conference and Exposition, Orlando, FL, May 7-10. Piscataway, NJ: Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Walton, R. 2019. "Island-wide outage on Kaua'i: Clouds block solar recovery after generator's
cable failure." Utility Dive. July 23, 2019.
Wind Generation Task Force. 2007. The Technical Basis for the New WECC Voltage Ride-
Through (VRT) Standard. Salt Lake City, UT: Western Electricity Coordinating Council.

=== page 60 ===
49
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Yazdani, A., and R. Iravani. 2010. Voltage-Sourced Converters in Power Systems: Modeling
Control and Applications. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Zhong, Q.-C. 2013. "Robust Droop Controller for Accurate Proportional Load Sharing Among
Inverters Operated in Parallel." IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics 60 no. 4: 1281-
1290.
---. 2016. "Virtual Synchronous Machines: A Unified Interface for Grid Integration." IEEE
Power Electronics Magazine 3 no. 4: 18-27.
Zhong, Q.C., G.C. Konstantopoulos, B. Ren, and M. Krstic. 2017. "Improved Synchronverters
with Bounded Frequency and Voltage for Smart Grid Integration." IEEE Transactions on Smart
Grid. doi:10.1109/TSG.2016.2565663.
Zhou, Q., and J.W. Bialek. 2007. "Generation Curtailment to Manage Voltage Constraints in
Distribution Networks." IET Generation, Transmission & Distribution 1 no. 3: 492-498.
Zhu, H., and H.J. Liu. 2016. "Fast Local Voltage Control Under Limited Reactive Power:
Optimality and Stability Analysis." IEEE Transactions on Power Systems 31 no. 5 (September):
3794-3803.
