SOURCE: A Primer on the Unintentional Islanding Protection Requirement in IEEE Std 1547-2018
AUTHOR: Narang, Gonzalez, Ingram (NREL and Sandia), 2022, NREL/TP-5D00-77782
URL: https://docs.nlr.gov/docs/fy22osti/77782.pdf
RAW FILE: raw/nrel_islanding_primer.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-24
PAGES: 42
USED FOR: Item 54. 1547 clause 8.1: 2 s trip, 5 min return-to-service, safety and out-of-phase reclosing.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== page 1 ===
NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy
Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy
Operated by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory (NREL) at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308

Technical Report
NREL/TP-5D00-77782
April 2022
A Primer on the Unintentional Islanding
Protection Requirement in
IEEE Std 1547-2018
David Narang,1 Sigifredo Gonzalez,2 and Michael Ingram1
1 National Renewable Energy Laboratory
2 Sandia National Laboratories

=== page 2 ===
NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy
Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy
Operated by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory (NREL) at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308
National Renewable Energy Laboratory
15013 Denver West Parkway
Golden, CO 80401
303-275-3000 - www.nrel.gov
Technical Report
NREL/TP-5D00-77782
April 2022
A Primer on the Unintentional Islanding
Protection Requirement in
IEEE Std 1547-2018
David Narang,1 Sigifredo Gonzalez,2 and Michael Ingram1
1 National Renewable Energy Laboratory
2 Sandia National Laboratories
Suggested Citation
Narang, David, Sigifredo Gonzalez, and Michael Ingram. 2022. A Primer on the
Unintentional Islanding Protection Requirement in IEEE Std 1547-2018. Golden, CO:
National Renewable Energy Laboratory. NREL/TP-5D00-77782.
https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy22osti/77782.pdf.

=== page 3 ===

NOTICE
This work was authored in part by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, operated by Alliance for Sustainable
Energy, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308. Funding
provided by U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Solar Energy
Technologies Office Award Number 34808. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the views of
the DOE or the U.S. Government.
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable
Energy Laboratory (NREL) at www.nrel.gov/publications.
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) reports produced after 1991
and a growing number of pre-1991 documents are available
free via www.OSTI.gov.
Cover Photos by Dennis Schroeder: (clockwise, left to right) NREL 51934, NREL 45897, NREL 42160, NREL 45891, NREL 48097,
NREL 46526.
NREL prints on paper that contains recycled content.

=== page 4 ===
iii
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Preface
The revised Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 1547-2018 Standard for
Interconnection and Interoperability of Distributed Energy Resources with Associated Electric
Power Systems Interfaces (IEEE Std 1547-2018) was published in April 2018. This standard is
one of the foundational documents in the United States needed for integrating distributed energy
resources (DERs), including solar energy systems, and energy storage systems with the electric
distribution grid.
The revised standard contains 11 chapters (clauses) and 8 annexes that comprise 136 pages. The
revision is significantly different from the 2003 version, and it contains new concepts and new
technical requirements. Each clause specifies information or requirements that apply to certain
aspects that are important to the interconnection of DERs to the electric power system.
Implementing the requirements necessitates a careful study of the underlying technical concepts
and requires appropriate information to calculate relevant settings and configurations.
Various stakeholders have different roles in implementing the standard, and portions of the
standard are directed toward a specific audience who must possess specialized information and
technical training to use and apply the requirements.
This document provides informative material on the requirements related to unintentional
islanding in IEEE Std 1547-2018, with the intent to equip the reader with basic knowledge and
background information to improve understanding and use of the requirements specified.
Note that this document reflects the authors' interpretations, which in some instances might
differ from one person to another; therefore, this work is intended to supplement the existing and
growing body of knowledge1 across the U.S. electric sector on the use and application of this
important standard.

1 Additional educational material can be found at https://www.nrel.gov/grid/ieee-standard-1547/.

=== page 5 ===
iv
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Acknowledgments
This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy
Efficiency and Renewable Energy under the Solar Energy Technologies Office Award Number
34808.
The authors thank Andy Hoke, Jason Allnutt, Robert Harris, Brian Lydic, John Shenot, and
Kiera Zitelman for their review and valuable comments.
The authors are also grateful to the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and
Renewable Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office Strategic Analysis and Institutional
Support Program Manager Michele Boyd; technical monitors Jeremiah Miller and Robert Reedy;
and Systems Integration Program Manager Guohui Yuan for their guidance and support.

=== page 6 ===
v
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
List of Acronyms
AGIR
Authority Governing Interconnection Requirements
DER
distributed energy resource
DTT
direct transfer trip
EPS
electric power system
IEEE
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
PG&E
Pacific Gas & Electric Company
PV
photovoltaic
VAR
volt-ampere reactive

=== page 7 ===
vi
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Table of Contents
Introduction ................................................................................................................................................. 1
How Can Unintentional Islands Form? .................................................................................................. 2
Summary of Inverter-Based Anti-Islanding Protection Methods .................................................. 4
1
Functional Requirements in IEEE Std 1547-2018 .............................................................................. 6
2
Factory Testing and Certification ....................................................................................................... 7
2.1
Balanced Generation-to-Load Test ............................................................................................... 9
2.2
Power Line-Conducted Permissive Signal Test .......................................................................... 10
2.3
Permissive Hardware-Input Test ................................................................................................. 11
2.4
Reverse or Minimum Import Active Power Flow Test ............................................................... 11
3
Field Evaluations and Verifications .................................................................................................. 12
4
Common Concerns ............................................................................................................................ 13
4.1
Personnel Safety .......................................................................................................................... 13
4.2
Equipment Protection .................................................................................................................. 15
4.3
Maintaining Power Quality ......................................................................................................... 17
4.4
Impact of Grid Support and Ride-Through Functions ................................................................ 17
4.5
Multiple-Inverter and Mixed Distributed Energy Resource Scenarios ....................................... 19
4.6
Locales with High Shares of Distributed Energy Resources ....................................................... 20
5
Guidelines to Determine the Risk of Unintentional Islanding ........................................................ 22
6
Conclusion .......................................................................................................................................... 25
References ................................................................................................................................................. 26
Bibliography .............................................................................................................................................. 29
Appendix: Summary of Supplementary Anti-Islanding Protection Methods ...................................... 30

=== page 8 ===
vii
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
List of Figures
Figure 1. Block diagram of DER interconnection illustrating unintentional islanding concepts .................. 3
Figure 2. Implementation of IEEE Std 1547-2018 and related standards in the United States .................... 8
Figure 3. Single-line drawing of the setup for a balanced generation-to-load test ..................................... 10
Figure 4. Varieties of testing and verification for DER interconnection .................................................... 12
Figure 5. PV Islanding risk analysis fault tree ............................................................................................ 14
Figure 6. Simplified illustration of circuit elements related to reclosing .................................................... 16
Figure 7. Run-on time test results for 3 inverters with grid support functions enabled .............................. 18
Figure 8. Example test results for a scenario with multiple inverters with grid support functions enabled 20
Figure 9. Procedure for assessing risk of unintentional islanding .............................................................. 24
Figure A-1. Relay functions ........................................................................................................................ 32
Figure A-2. One-line diagram of the impedance insertion method using a capacitor bank ........................ 33
Figure A-3. One-line diagram of power line carrier communications method ........................................... 33

=== page 9 ===
1
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Introduction
In the revised Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 1547-2018 Standard for
Interconnection and Interoperability of Distributed Energy Resources with Associated Electric
Power Systems Interfaces (IEEE Std 1547-2018), Clause 8.1 contains requirements for
distributed energy resource (DER) responses to unintentional islanding conditions. This is also
referred to as anti-islanding protection.
An island is a condition in which a DER continues to energize a portion of the power system
when it is electrically isolated from the utility source. If unplanned, this unintentional islanding
condition could become harmful to connected equipment because the DER might not be
designed to maintain frequency and voltage without a utility source. In addition, the
unintentional island could present a hazard to utility workers or other people in the area who are
unaware of the electrically energized island (Seguin et al. 2016).
IEEE Std 1547-2018 Clause 8.1 is only half a page; however, the topic of unintentional islanding
has historically been and continues to be of high concern and debate in the industry. The issues
around this phenomena were eloquently stated by Bas Verhoeven in a 2002 study under the
International Energy Agency:
Many international forum discussions have been dealing with 'Islanding'. ...
A general conclusion of these discussions was that views on the subject are very
polarised. On the one hand, the islanding phenomenon is considered such a rare or
improbable event that it does not merit special consideration. On the other hand,
the mere theoretical possibility of unintentional islanding, confirmed in laboratory
experiments, is sufficient for individuals to have great concerns over the
possibility of islanding. The reality probability lies somewhere between the two
extremes. An important issue here is the lack of any real data on how often and
for how long islanding can occur in practice and the associated risk of occurrence.
An important observation in the discussion about islanding is that the discussion
is based on "personal feelings" and/or "intuition", which make the discussions
even more difficult.
This document is intended to provide an overview of the subject to aid the reader in discussions
and understanding. The intended audience includes electric utilities-area electric power system
(EPS) operators; testing agencies2; solar and other DER developers, integrators, and installers3;
and Authorities Governing Interconnection Requirements.4 We hope that other stakeholders will
also find it valuable.

2 The term testing agency includes entities such as nationally recognized testing laboratories.
3 Solar and other DER device manufacturers are inherently interested in the performance requirements in IEEE Std
1547-2018; however, this document focuses on the application of the standard rather than the manufacturing
processes of DER devices.
4 The term Authority Governing Interconnection Requirements (AGIR) is defined in IEEE Std 1547-2018 as a
"cognizant and responsible entity that defines, codifies, communicates, administers, and enforces the policies and
procedures for allowing electrical interconnection of DER to the Area EPS. This may be a regulatory agency, public

=== page 10 ===
2
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
This document is intended as a supplement to material already published or in development,5 and
it is not intended as an exhaustive resource on technical implementation; rather, topics are
presented at a level that is appropriate to serve individuals who require an introduction or
technical refresher to the material.
IEEE Std 1547-2018 assumes that the reader possesses the appropriate training and experience
necessary to understand and apply the stated requirements. This could include foundational
electrical engineering knowledge; knowledge of area EPS device settings, parameters, and
operational practices; and knowledge of general and specific DER capabilities relevant to the
subject.
Anti-islanding protection is required for all DERs that comply with IEEE Std 1547-2018 and UL
1741, Standard for Safety for Inverters, Converters, Controllers, and Interconnection System
Equipment for Use with Distributed Energy Resources. Specifically, according to IEEE Std
1547-2018, if an unintentional island is formed by the DER, the DER must detect the island and
go offline6 within 2 seconds of the formation of the island.
The most common DERs are photovoltaic (PV) or battery energy storage systems, and these
DERs are inverter based; therefore, numerous studies have focused specifically on these types of
DERs. This document uses the term DER to apply to all types of DERs, and the more specific
terms PV or inverter refer to inverter-based DERs.
How Can Unintentional Islands Form?
Several conditions could potentially cause unintentional islanding. Examples given by Bower
and Ropp (2002) include:
- A fault on the area EPS that results in opening a disconnecting device, but the fault is not
detected by the PV inverter or by local DER protection devices
- Equipment failure that causes an accidental opening of a disconnecting device
- Utility switching of distribution line and loads; intentional disconnection of the
distribution line for utility service or repair
- Human error
- Bad actor with malicious intent

utility commission, municipality, cooperative board of directors, etc. The degree of AGIR involvement will vary in
scope of application and level of enforcement across jurisdictional boundaries. This authority may be delegated by
the cognizant and responsible entity to the Area EPS operator or bulk power system operator. NOTE-Decisions
made by an authority governing interconnection requirements should consider various stakeholder interests,
including but not limited to Load Customers, Area EPS operators, DER operators, and bulk power system operator"
(IEEE 2018).
5 For example, the upcoming revision to IEEE Std 1547.2 - IEEE Application Guide for IEEE Std 1547, IEEE
Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems (expected in 2022).
6 The wording in IEEE Std 1547-2018 is very specialized and includes other defined terms, such as cease to
energize and trip.

=== page 11 ===
3
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- An act of nature.
Consider Figure 1. In a typical local EPS supplied by a DER such as a PV system, the inverter
controls its electrical current output magnitude and phase with respect to the voltage it sees at its
output terminals, called the "point of DER connection" in IEEE Std 1547-2018. This current is
supplied to the local DER load. Note that a local EPS could be configured in a variety of ways.
For example, it could contain only load, only a single DER (DER unit), multiple DERs, DERs
with or without supplemental DER devices, and so forth. See IEEE Std 1547-2018 Figure 2 for a
full explanation.

Source: Adapted from Kroposki 2016; Ropp and Ellis 2013; and IEEE 2018
Figure 1. Block diagram of DER interconnection illustrating unintentional islanding concepts
The circuit breaker in the diagram (CB1) could be any type of circuit isolation device, and it
represents any point on the distribution line between the substation and the DER installation
along which normal power flow could be interrupted. If this device is opened, the DER is
isolated from the grid. The circuit isolation device is often associated with fault protection and is
the most common type of isolation device. The condition that invokes a response from the
protection device is a fault that is significant and immediate enough to cause the protection
device to trip, open, and isolate the source and loads. This creates a dynamic condition on the
circuit, with the voltage and frequency fluctuating considerably, thus making it less probable to
match power and meet the reactive power resonance requirements to sustain an islanding event.
When the isolation device is operated for a maintenance event, the dynamic variability is mostly
removed, and there could be a condition where the current flowing through the isolating device is
low enough to maintain sufficient active and reactive power matches; and while the matches are
still needed, the variability aspect is removed. For fault conditions that cause the isolation
devices to trip, the DERs are designed to turn off to prevent an islanded condition; however,
there are some conditions under which an island could form and persist. These conditions must
occur at the exact moment the device opens, and they include the following:

=== page 12 ===
4
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- The grid current must be nearly zero-that is, the PV system must be producing nearly
the same amount of power that is required for the load to operate.
- The power from the DERs must have the correct amount of active and reactive power
required by the load.
- The reactive current must have capacitive and inductive components that resonate near 60
Hz.
DERs use various anti-islanding methods to detect and quickly disconnect in case a potentially
stable island is formed. IEEE Std 1547-2018 and related standards IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 and
UL 1741 require all DERs to meet robust anti-islanding functional requirements and testing
before they can be deployed in the field.
Summary of Inverter-Based Anti-Islanding Protection Methods
Inverter-based DERs, such as PV and storage systems, feature built-in protection mechanisms
that detect when they have become islanded from the distribution grid. Inverters have
traditionally used a number of anti-islanding protection methods that have been classified as
either passive or active. Modern inverters do not rely solely on passive methods.
Passive methods for islanding detection resident in the inverter are designed to monitor the
electrical parameters at the point of DER connection. Upon detecting an abnormal condition, the
inverter ceases power conversion. As noted by Bower and Ropp (2002), typical monitored
conditions are:
- Over-/undervoltage and over-/underfrequency detection7
- Voltage phase jump detection
- Voltage harmonics detection
- Current harmonics detection.
Active methods of islanding detection in inverters are based on the logic that the inverter should
not be able to affect certain electrical parameters as much as the larger area EPS-unless the
inverter is operating in an island. These methods are designed to deliberately create small
changes or disturbances at the point of DER connection. The response is analyzed to determine
whether the inverter has been able to affect specific parameters-and if so, it is assumed that an
island has occurred, and the inverter ceases power conversion. Common methods of active anti-
islanding detection noted in literature include8:
- Impedance measurement
- Impedance detection at a specific frequency
- Slip-mode frequency shift

7 Note that the informative footnote 111 in IEEE Std 1547-2018 states: "Reliance solely on under/over voltage and
frequency trip is not considered sufficient to detect and cease to energize and trip" (IEEE 2018).
8 DER inverter manufacturers might also employ proprietary methods that use other techniques or combinations of
the techniques mentioned here.

=== page 13 ===
5
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- Frequency bias/Sandia frequency shift
- Sandia voltage shift
- Frequency jump
- Mains monitoring units with allocated all-pole switching devices connected in series9

9 Sometimes referred to as MSD, "main monitoring device" or ENS, the German abbreviation for mains monitoring
units with allocated switching devices.

=== page 14 ===
6
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
1 Functional Requirements in IEEE Std 1547-2018
IEEE Std 1547-2018 Clause 8.1 is directed primarily to area EPS operators, DER manufacturers,
testing agencies, commissioning agencies,10 and DER operators. A DER connected to the area
EPS must meet the unintentional islanding requirements of Clause 8.1 which contains three
subclauses.
1. Clause 8.1.1 describes the islanding condition and the requirement for DER response:
Upon formation of an island (the moment the DER is separated from the area EPS), the
islanding DER must respond by ceasing to energize and tripping11 within 2 seconds after
the formation of an island. The 2-second response time is called the clearing time. By
default, the clearing time is set to be 2 seconds. Not only must the DER detect the island
within 2 seconds, but it must also trip. Upon trip, the DER will intentionally stay
disconnected for a specified time. This intentional delay, called the return-to-service
delay12 is by default set to 5 minutes under IEEE Std 1547-2018. The delay can be
adjusted by mutual agreement between the area EPS operator and the DER operator.
2. Clause 8.1.2 states the clearing time can be adjusted to be between 2 and 5 seconds by
mutual agreement between the area EPS operator and the DER operator.
3. Clause 8.1.3 directs the reader to Clause 6.3, which requires the implementation of
"appropriate means" to prevent damage or unacceptable disturbances to the area EPS if it
automatically recloses on an islanded circuit. Damage or unacceptable disturbances could
result if there are differences in instantaneous voltage, phase angle, or frequency between
the islanded system and the area EPS at the instant a recloser operates (IEEE 2018).
Clause 8.1.1, Clause 8.1.2, and Clause 8.1.3 comprise the unintentional islanding
requirements in IEEE Std 1547-2018. Because of the safety nature of these requirements,
however, extensive effort is made to verify this functionality, and in some jurisdictions,
additional safeguards are put into place to supplement these unintentional islanding
prevention requirements.

10 A commissioning agency could include the DER vendor, the system integrator, the local utility, or other qualified
and authorized entity.
11 Cease to energize is a specialized term that applies at the point of DER connection, defined as a "cessation of
active power delivery under steady-state and transient conditions and limitation of reactive power exchange." This
function can be caused to operate for a variety of reasons. In the case of unintentional islanding, it is followed by a
trip, another specialized term, which is defined as an "inhibition of immediate return to service, which may involve
disconnection" (IEEE 2018).
12 The return-to-service delay is typically changed to much shorter times when type testing a DER to expedite the
unintentional islanding testing procedure.

=== page 15 ===
7
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
2 Factory Testing and Certification
IEEE Std 1547-2018 requires DERs to detect and cease to energize the area EPS and trip within
2 seconds of the formation of an island. For most types of residential and commercial DERs, this
requirement is built into the DERs by manufacturers, and this capability is thoroughly tested
prior to field deployment.13
In the United States, this "type testing" typically occurs by an approved testing agency14 at the
DER manufacturer's factory or at a special testing laboratory, and it is carried out on a single
piece of equipment (DER unit) that represents the specific model of the manufactured DER. The
testing is valid for other DERs in the product family of the same design.
In the United States, type testing is typically done in conjunction with equipment certification.
Type tests are completed according to the procedures specified in IEEE Std 1547.1-2020, and the
testing agency records the applicable test criteria and results. For DER interconnections, the
primary means of equipment certification is via UL 1741, Standard for Safety for Inverters,
Converters, Controllers, and Interconnection System Equipment for Use With Distributed
Energy Resources.
Certified equipment is installed following the requirements of the National Fire Protection
Association 70 (National Electric Code) to ensure that sound equipment installation practices
contribute to the safe operation of the equipment. Additional jurisdiction-specific requirements
might also be applied via local interconnection rules. This implementation is illustrated in Figure
2.
Under UL 1741, anti-islanding protection testing is conducted after all grid support functions15
are tested. This ensures that the equipment being tested can perform all the grid support functions
as designed and that it can pass the unintentional islanding tests with grid support functions, such
as voltage and frequency support functions along with the mandatory voltage and frequency ride-
throughs. The IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 test matrix is an exhaustive test procedure and combines
various grid support functionalities and power levels to ensure that the DER can detect the loss
of the utility under unique balanced conditions. For these tests, the method of isolation is the
opening of an isolation device, such as conditions occurring under a routine maintenance
isolation condition, i.e., a fault is not introduced to cause a protection device to trip/actuate.

13 Certain types of DERs that contain supplemental DER devices might need to be field-certified.
14 A nationally recognized testing laboratory, certified by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, is an
example of a testing agency.
15 Examples of grid support functions include active and reactive power control voltage ride-through and frequency
ride-through.

=== page 16 ===
8
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Figure 2. Implementation of IEEE Std 1547-2018 and related standards in the United States
IEEE Std 1547.1-2020, which was approved in March 2020, specifies the conformance testing
and evaluation procedures that are exercised to establish and verify compliance with the
technical functional requirements of IEEE Std 1547-2018.
UL 1741 was updated to reflect the revised performance and testing requirements in IEEE Std
1547.1-2020. The revision was published on August 3, 2020. The revised testing requirements
are included in Supplement B, UL 1741-SB.16
As summarized in IEEE Std 1547.1-2020, one or more samples of the DER must pass the
applicable type tests. Performance requirements not verifiable through type tests must be verified
by other means, such as DER evaluation and commissioning tests. Each DER unit or
supplemental DER device must pass all required production tests. The design evaluation phase of
the interconnection process will determine whether any additional testing or evaluation must be
made either during the design evaluation, through installation evaluations, and/or through
commissioning tests. Additionally, any required periodic tests and verifications are to be
performed in the field (IEEE 2020).
Most type testing of DER unintentional islanding functionality is performed under worst-case
conditions to fully challenge both the capability of the DER to detect when an unintentional
islanding event has occurred and to challenge the DER's ability to take the required actions.

16 Please see https://sagroups.ieee.org/scc21/standards/1547rev/ for a timeline for the rollout of DERs that comply
with IEEE Std 1547-2018.

=== page 17 ===
9
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Unintentional islanding testing is conducted with grid support functions enabled and with the
DER operating in different modes, i.e., unity power factor, non-unity power factor, and constant
reactive power operation. These operating modes coupled with voltage regulating functions and
frequency regulating functions can challenge some of the unintentional islanding methods;
therefore, voltage and frequency ride-through and voltage and frequency regulating functions
must be determined prior to conducting unintentional islanding assessments. If unintentional
islanding evaluations result in nonconformance, an investigation must be performed to identity
the function that creates the nonconformance.
DER manufacturers can use a variety of methods17 to detect an islanding condition. IEEE Std
1547.1-2020 Clause 5.10 specifies the required type tests to verify the unintentional islanding
functionality.
The DER and any supplemental equipment being tested, referred to as "equipment under test" by
IEEE Std 1547.1-2020, may use multiple methods of unintentional islanding detection.
Commonly implemented methods18 use some form of voltage and frequency threshold to detect
when an islanding condition exists. Various tests have been designed to evaluate how well these
methods perform as part of the type testing regimen.
2.1 Balanced Generation-to-Load Test
The balanced generation-to-load test, described in Clause 5.10.2, can be used for any type of
equipment. Passing this test achieves full compliance with the unintentional islanding
requirements. This test is conducted to verify that when an unintentional islanding condition
occurs, the DER responds correctly-namely, by ceasing to energize the area EPS-and trips.
Tests are conducted on a single DER under various power levels.
A simplified drawing of the test configuration is illustrated in Figure 3. The test can be
conducted using a power-hardware-in-the-loop approach that allows the testing agency to use
software and hardware to simulate some of the devices that are external to the DER.

17 Passive and active methods are not limited to the methods mentioned here; however, some common passive
methods include over-/undervoltage and over-/underfrequency, voltage phase jump, voltage/frequency harmonic
distortion, rate of change of frequency, and rate of change of active power. Some common active methods include
impedance detection, positive-feedback Sandia frequency shift, and impedance detection plus positive feedback.
18 IEEE Std 1547-2018 notes that additional methods may be used to provide unintentional islanding protection,
such as direct transfer trip or radio or cellular communications channels; however, type testing those methods was
considered out of scope of the standard.

=== page 18 ===
10
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Source: Based on IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 (Figure 7)
Figure 3. Single-line drawing of the setup for a balanced generation-to-load test
This test relies on the principle that for an island to persist, the DER must be generating at or
very near19 the same active and reactive power that the load requires in the islanded portion of
the system, and some mechanism must exist to maintain the islanded frequency at or very near
60 Hz. For testing conditions, therefore, a worst-case condition is a generation-to-load balance
that contains both active and reactive power generation with load components that are tuned to
match the DER generation power levels and resonate at or near 60 Hz to provide the system
frequency.
2.2 Power Line-Conducted Permissive Signal Test
This method of anti-islanding protection relies on a signal conducted on the distribution primary
line. As long as the signal is present, the DER has permission to operate. If the signal is
discontinued, the DER must cease to energize the area EPS and trip within the required time.
The power line-conducted permissive signal test-applicable to DERs that use this method-is
described in IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 Clause 5.10.3. For DERs that use this method, additional
evaluation is required because this method uses equipment beyond what is tested in the type test;
therefore, passing this test achieves only partial compliance with the unintentional islanding
requirements. The additional evaluation needed to obtain full compliance is specified in IEEE
Std 1547.1-2020 Clause 8.1.2.
During type testing, the testing agency simulates a permissive signal and its interruption. If the
DER responds appropriately within the designated time, it passes the type test. As noted,
however, because this test requires the permissive signal to be effective, the type test alone does
not verify full compliance with the unintentional islanding requirements. Additional verification
is required during the DER evaluation phase, at which time additional required equipment or
methods are applied, such as a permissive signal provided by the area EPS operator.

19 Voltage and frequency operating ranges allow for a slight mismatch, and the output power of the DER is never
exactly constant because of maximum power point tracking and variations of the grid voltage and frequency.

=== page 19 ===
11
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
2.3 Permissive Hardware-Input Test
The permissive hardware-input test-applicable to DERs that use this method-is described in
IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 Clause 5.10.4. For DERs that use this method, additional evaluation is
required because this method uses equipment beyond what is tested in the type test; therefore,
passing this test achieves only partial compliance with the unintentional islanding requirements.
The additional evaluation is specified in Clause 8.1.2.
DERs that use this method of unintentional islanding detection have a dedicated hardware
control input that is used to provide permission to operate. (Note that the hardware control signal
itself is generated by external means, and it is not tested in this procedure.20)
Similar to the power line-conducted permissive signal test, this test requires external input to be
effective-in this case, the hardware control input; therefore, the type test alone does not verify
full compliance with the unintentional islanding requirements. Additional verification is required
during the DER evaluation phase, at which time additional required equipment or methods are
applied, such as a direct transfer trip (DTT) input provided by the area EPS operator.
2.4 Reverse or Minimum Import Active Power Flow Test
The reverse or minimum import active power flow test (including tests for magnitude and time),
applicable to the DERs that use this method, is described in IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 clause 5.10.5.
Passing this test achieves full compliance with the unintentional islanding requirements.
DERs that use this method have a function that senses the power flow between the point of
connection and the point of common coupling. Using this function, the DER is permitted to
operate only if power is flowing from the area EPS to the DER installation or if the power is
flowing at a predetermined minimum level. If the power flow reverses or falls below the
minimum level, the DER is disconnected from the area EPS. Type testing includes verification of
the accuracy of the minimum power setting and the speed of the DER response.

20 Examples of a DTT and a conducted power line signal are given in IEEE Std 1547-2018.

=== page 20 ===
12
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
3 Field Evaluations and Verifications
In addition to type testing, verification of performance might be required during the DER's
interconnection life cycle. A high-level view of the varieties of testing and verification is
illustrated in Figure 4, with type testing shown at the bottom of the figure as the first level of
evaluation. Unintentional islanding protection must be verified for all DERs during the design
evaluation phase and/or during commissioning tests.
A design evaluation is a desk study typically conducted by electric utility engineers as part of an
interconnection review process. The main purpose of the design evaluation is to verify that the
overall DER system meets the requirements specified in IEEE Std 1547-2018 and any other
interconnection requirements specified by the utility. Evaluations could be as simple as an
engineering review of the DER system's design, components, and certification, or it could
involve a more detailed study, such as modeling and simulation of the DER system. There could
be multiple evaluations if the design of the DER changes any time during the interconnection
process.

Figure 4. Varieties of testing and verification for DER interconnection

=== page 21 ===
13
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
4 Common Concerns
Concerns related to unplanned islands have been noted in several publications, including Bower
and Ropp (2002), IEEE (2008), Walling and Miller (2002), Barker and De Mello (2000), and
Stevens et al. (2000). The top utility concerns from unintentional islanding are maintaining
personnel safety and avoiding harm to customer and utility equipment. Additional concerns are
also being debated, especially in locales with high shares of DERs.
4.1 Personnel Safety
The main concern for personnel safety is that if the DER's onboard unintentional islanding
detection should fail and an unintentional island occurs and becomes sustained, the connected
and energized electrical lines pose a risk of exposure to electricity hazards for utility workers and
the public if the lines are contacted and presumed to be de-energized.
An exhaustive study of personnel risk from all types of DERs has not been identified as of this
writing; however, several studies have been done for PV systems. One study conducted in 2002
under the International Energy Agency concluded that the risk of electric shock from an islanded
PV system under worst-case PV penetration scenarios is less than the "benchmark" risk that
already exists for utility personnel and customers.21 The study concluded, "the additional risk
presented by islanding does not materially increase the risk that already exists as long as the risk
is managed properly" (Cullen, Thornycroft, and Collinson 2002).
This same study noted that prudent good practice measures could be taken to properly manage
the risk, including proper signage; information and education of utility personnel and customers
about the risks; and appropriate utility personnel work practices and procedures, such as testing
circuits prior to work (Cullen, Thornycroft, and Collinson 2002). Further, the authors
recommended that "[s]ince LOM [loss of mains] functionality is included in many PV inverters
already, it is appropriate to maintain this requirement, but emphasis should be put on simple,
robust, verifiable and cost-effective solutions (e.g., software-based)" (Cullen, Thornycroft, and
Collinson 2002).
Note that the measures listed are predominantly for utility personnel. These measures may not
adequately address other types of risk to the general public that are prevalent from electrical
equipment from downed conductors, such as electrocution and wildfire. These types of risk have
existed and will likely continue to exist regardless of the presence of DERs on the circuit.
The authors developed an evaluation and quantification of the risk based on a PV risk analysis
"fault tree," shown in Figure 5. As illustrated, risk from an islanded system depends on several
factors that must exist simultaneously.

21 The risk of shock from islanded PV systems was found to be near 10-9 per year for an individual person compared
to the benchmark risk of near 10-6 per year.

=== page 22 ===
14
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Source: Based on Cullen, Thornycroft, and Collinson 2002
Figure 5. PV Islanding risk analysis fault tree
The subject of unintentional islanding is under constant debate, according to Woyte et al. (2003):
For low-density of PV generation, islanding is virtually impossible since load and
generation never match.
For networks with a high density of PV generation, the probability of
encountering a power island is small, but for the power margins originating from
standard protection relay settings it may not be regarded as negligible. In order to
keep the risk from islanding to maintenance operators and customers satisfactorily
low, additional islanding prevention methods are necessary to detect a loss of
mains in any case that is practically feasible.
Another study concluded (Verhoeven 2002):
Balanced conditions occur very rarely for low, medium and high penetration levels of
PV-systems. The probability that balanced conditions are present in the power network
and that the power network is disconnected at that exact time is virtually zero. Islanding
is therefore not a technical barrier for the large-scale deployment of PV system in
residential areas.

=== page 23 ===
15
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

As noted, some of the measures listed are predominantly for utility personnel. The measures
listed may not adequately address other types of risk to the general public or to emergency
response personnel, such as firefighters. The types of risk prevalent from electrical equipment
due to downed conductors have existed and will likely continue to exist regardless of the
presence of DERs on the circuit. Adequate consideration should be given to the types and
sources of risk and to the existing strategies in place to mitigate those risks to determine if any
additional mitigation is indicated or necessary. Note that the studies described are two decades
old. More current treatment of this subject in a formal study has not been identified by the
authors.
4.2 Equipment Protection
With regard to the specific phenomena of unintentional islanding, reclosing out of synchronism
(also referred to as reclosing out of phase) is typically a major concern associated with DER
deployment.22, 23
Many utilities use a protective device called a recloser that contains a relay-controlled switch or
breaker that initially opens when a predetermined amount of current flows through the device. A
simplified diagram of the circuit elements related to reclosing is shown in Figure 6. After a short
preprogrammed time interval chosen to allow the fault or overload to clear, the recloser closes
the breaker, thus reenergizing the downstream line segments.

22 Note that with higher shares of DERs, there are potentially additional impacts that must be considered, such as
overload-related impacts, voltage-related impacts, reverse power flow impacts, and other system protection impacts.
For a summary discussion of these topics, see High-Penetration PV Integration Handbook for Distribution
Engineers, https://www.osti.gov/biblio/1235905.
23 Fault conditions that could cause islanding concerns for DERs are sometimes associated with concerns for the
potential of transient or temporary overvoltage from DERs, such as load rejection overvoltage and ground fault
overvoltage. Several studies on these topics have been published, including Inverter Load Rejection Over-Voltage
Testing, https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy15osti/63510.pdf, and Inverter Ground Fault Overvoltage Testing,
https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy15osti/64173.pdf. For a discussion on neutral grounding, the reader should also consult
IEEE Std C62.92.4 - IEEE Guide for the Application of Neutral Grounding in Electrical Utility Systems-Part IV:
Distribution.

=== page 24 ===
16
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Figure 6. Simplified illustration of circuit elements related to reclosing
If the fault or overload persists longer than the time interval, the recloser again opens the switch
to isolate the fault. The recloser might open and reclose several times, and if the fault is still
uncleared, the recloser locks itself open for utility personnel to address the issue (Pansini 2005).
If a DER becomes islanded, the operation of utility reclosers reclosing onto an energized line
could result in retripping the line or damaging connected equipment (i.e., an out-of-phase
reclosure). As noted by Ingram et al. (2017):
If an unintentional island persists after a recloser has opened, it is possible that the phase
relationship of the islanded grid could deviate from that of the bulk system. The reclosing
action could forcibly resynchronize the grids. The risk of this forced synchronization is
potentially significant because customer equipment-motor loads, in particular-could
be damaged by the possible sudden change in frequency and voltage phase [resulting in
large transient torques on mechanical systems (e.g., shafts, blowers, and pumps)].
Effectively, the phase voltages experienced by the loads could jump instantaneously,
stressing any machine that has a speed/position relationship to the grid frequency.
Generally, the greater the phase difference between the islanded grid and the bulk system,
the greater the risk of damage to these types of equipment.
The default response time for all types of DERs using all methods of unintentional islanding is 2
seconds. The response time can be extended to 5 seconds and must be agreed upon by the area
EPS operator and the DER operator. Even with the shorter response duration of 2 seconds, a
common concern is the coordination of fast auto-reclosures with unintentional islanding response
time. Because the unintentional islanding methods are not designed to detect fault conditions, the
response time is not bound by the necessary fast fault response times that fault equipment must
meet.
Reclosers are a type of protective device often used by utilities to mitigate faults on the
distribution system. To decrease the duration of interruptions, reclosers are often deployed with a
"fast reclosing" function that reenergizes a circuit within 1 second or less after a fault condition
has been detected. When a fast reclosure initially opens, motors in the system will start slowing
down and can regenerate voltage on the bus. If the voltage is restored before the motors are
significantly slowed down, a large torque pulse can occur on motor shaft; therefore, a concern of
fast reclosures and motor reenergization exists even without the DERs in the circuit unless
corrective methods are implemented. For area EPS locales that use fast reclosing, there is
concern about out-of-phase reclosing, and further study might be required.

=== page 25 ===
17
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
For feeders or sections of the distribution circuit where a recloser is used, a generation-to-load
study might be desired to see if an island can be sustained (Ropp and Ellis 2013).
To address the concerns of out-of-phase reclosing, three solutions are typically considered:
lengthening the reclosing time to more than 2 seconds, blocking the hot-line recloser, blocking
the out-of-phase recloser, removing the recloser functionality, and DTT, as described in the
appendix.
For circuits with enough DERs to sustain an island, hot-line recloser blocking is a functionality
added to existing reclosers that delays the fast reclosing until the circuit being reclosed is
measured to be de-energized. Another option is to simply disable the reclosing functionality of
the protection equipment from a circuit. Reliability impacts from any of these methods should be
considered when choosing a solution.
4.3 Maintaining Power Quality
Utilities are responsible for supplying power to customers and for keeping the voltage and
frequency within acceptable ranges. In an islanding condition, however, a utility cannot control
the voltage and frequency within the island. These parameters could drift the longer an island is
sustained. DERs have trip settings for voltage and frequency. If the voltage or frequency reach
the trip settings, the DERs will stop exporting power, and the island will collapse.
4.4 Impact of Grid Support and Ride-Through Functions
IEEE Std 1547-2018 requires DERs to maintain anti-islanding functionality with and without
grid support functions enabled. Conversely, anti-islanding functionality may not interfere with
grid support functions and the new voltage and frequency ride-through requirements for all
DERs. To help enable these capabilities at the same time, DER functions and requirements are
prioritized relative to each other as follows24:
1. Response to disabling permit service setting
2. DER tripping requirements
3. Ride-through requirements (per IEEE Std 1547-2018 Clause 4.7, "Ride-through may be
terminated by the detection of an unintentional island.")
4. Voltage-active power mode requirements
5. Response to active power limit
6. Voltage regulation functions.
Several laboratory tests and some field demonstrations have been conducted to determine the
functionality of grid support functions such as voltage regulation and ride-through. Some studies
have also investigated the impact of grid support functions on anti-islanding performance.

24 Some caveats exist. The reader should read IEEE Std 1547-2018 carefully to understand the prioritization of DER
responses.

=== page 26 ===
18
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
One team conducted a set of power-hardware-in-the-loop experiments to determine the impacts
on the effectiveness of anti-islanding functions resident in PV inverters under multi-inverter
deployment scenarios with grid support functions enabled. PV inverters were tested with four
grid support functions enabled: voltage ride-through, frequency ride-through, volt-volt ampere
reactive (VAR) control, and frequency-watt control.25 Results were published in a report titled
Experimental Evaluation of PV Inverter Anti-Islanding with Grid Support Functions in Multi-
Inverter Island Scenarios (Hoke et al. 2016).
The team observed that for the single-inverter test case with grid support functions enabled, the
maximum run-on time (duration of the island) increased slightly with voltage and frequency
ride-through; however, for the 50 tests conducted on each inverter (150 total), the maximum run-
on time was 711 milliseconds, significantly less than the 2-second limit currently imposed by
IEEE Std 1547-2018. The test was run with the inverter regulating voltage with a steep volt-
VAR curve with voltage and frequency ride-through enabled (frequency-watt was disabled).
Figure 7 shows results for run-on times for three separate inverters tested under various
conditions.

Source: Hoke et al. 2016
Figure 7. Run-on time test results for 3 inverters with grid support functions enabled
The team found no evidence that volt-VAR control or frequency-watt control increased
maximum run-on time, confirming expectations.

25 Note that ride-through is an inherent capability of DERs that cannot be turned off, according to IEEE Std 1547-
2018.

=== page 27 ===
19
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
The team also investigated the possibility of load rejection overvoltage during islanding events.
Under the balanced islanding conditions used for the anti-islanding tests, the team observed no
overvoltages exceeding 110% of nominal voltage, as expected.26
In another study, a project team from Sandia National Laboratories and Northern Plains Power
Technologies conducted laboratory simulations and experiments to determine the impact of PV
inverter grid support functions on various anti-islanding detection methods. Results were
published in January 2019 in a report titled Evaluation of Multi-Inverter Anti-Islanding with Grid
Support and Ride-Through and Investigation of Island Detection Alternatives (Ropp et al. 2019).
This study concluded that enabling voltage regulating functions was not observed to have an
adverse effect on anti-islanding performance, and in certain cases, it resulted in reduced run-on
time. The team noted that the ride-through of voltage and frequency was observed to have an
adverse impact on islanding detection; however, in all cases tested, run-on times remained within
the 2-second requirement in IEEE Std 1547-2018. The team introduced a technique called
"collaborative controls," which was shown to mitigate the negative impacts of ride-through
(Ropp et al. 2019).
4.5 Multiple-Inverter and Mixed Distributed Energy Resource
Scenarios
DER systems, especially inverter-based DERs, are highly configurable to fit many deployment
needs at many scales-from single-inverter residential deployments to utility-scale systems with
dozens of inverters. The sheer number of potential system designs, equipment, and
configurations make it impossible to test every scenario; however, many teams have published
results from laboratory studies.
Hoke et al. (2016) investigated the anti-islanding functionality impacts from multiple inverters
with grid support functions enabled. Under the multi-inverter test case, three common,
commercially available, single-phase PV inverters from three different manufacturers were
simultaneously deployed at nearby points on the same simulated distribution feeder and
subjected to a variety of representative island configurations. For the 244 multi-inverter tests
conducted, the maximum run-on time observed was 632 milliseconds, again well within the 2-
second requirement. Example test results are shown in Figure 8.

26 More comprehensive testing of load rejection overvoltage can be found in a related report on Inverter Load
Rejection Over-Voltage Testing, https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy15osti/63510.pdf.

=== page 28 ===
20
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Source: Hoke at al. 2016
Figure 8. Example test results for a scenario with multiple inverters with grid support functions
enabled
In another study, a team from Sandia National Laboratories and Northern Plains Power
Technologies conducted a set of computer simulations to determine the performance of inverter-
based anti-islanding under scenarios with combinations of different inverters using different
types of islanding detection methods and combinations of inverters and synchronous generators.
The simulations were conducted with and without voltage and frequency ride-through enabled,
and the island run-on times of various anti-islanding methods were analyzed. Results were
published in July 2018 in a report titled Unintentional Islanding Detection Performance with
Mixed DER Types (Ropp et al. 2018).
The team noted-as expected per results from other studies-that simulation results showed that
the addition of ride-through degrades the performance of anti-islanding detection methods.
Under the mixed-inverter test conditions, some combinations of methods resulted in larger non-
detection zones and longer island run-on times (some exceeding 2 seconds), whereas other
combinations remained highly effective over a wide range of conditions.
For the methods studied, the team observed that islanding detection methods vary greatly in their
effectiveness depending on the types of DERs in the island. The team noted that, in general,
mixed-type DER scenarios (inverter and synchronous generators) increased run-on times and had
larger non-detection zones; however, in some cases, anti-islanding performance improved.
4.6 Locales with High Shares of Distributed Energy Resources
A handful of locations already experience high shares of DERs; however, in most locales, this is
currently not an issue. High shares of DERs create concerns for the area EPS operator because of
the large number of devices on the feeder and the different types of unintentional islanding

=== page 29 ===
21
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
methods employed. Public utility commissions in several states have started research projects
and study groups27 to discuss these topics.
One report, completed in 2016 for the California Public Utilities Commission, noted that to
adequately assess the risk from unintentional islanding, consideration must be given to not only
the DER but also the load composition28 in the potential island (Bebic, Sun, and Marin 2016).
Under the project, islanding tests were performed on groups of physical inverters. The inverters
were set to unity power factor with no advanced functions enabled. Under the test conditions, the
team noted that the pre-islanding power factor of the circuit had a strong impact on the duration
of the islanding. The team also noted that increased motor loads also had an impact on islanding
duration.

27 For example, the California Public Utilities Commission Interconnection Rulemaking Working Groups convened
under the R.17-07-007 docket. Working Group Four investigated anti-islanding conditions and made
recommendations in a final report published in August 2020. Proceedings under Working Group Four are available
at https://gridworks.org/initiatives/rule-21-working-group-4/. The final report is available at
https://gridworks.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/R21-WG4-Final-Report.pdf.
28 The report follows the Western Electricity Coordinating Council recommendations to represent utility loads based
on equipment varieties that include motor loads, power electronic loads, resistive loads, and constant current loads
(Bebic, Sun, and Marin 2016).

=== page 30 ===
22
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
5 Guidelines to Determine the Risk of Unintentional
Islanding
DER deployments include scenarios that could present challenges for onboard anti-islanding
techniques. There are no formal standards for assessing the risk of unintentional islanding;
however, Ropp and Ellis, in a report published by Sandia National laboratories in 2012 and
revised in 2013, provided recommendations. To date, these guidelines have been widely used in
interconnection studies to evaluate the risks of unintentional islanding for specific installations
and to help determine the appropriate mitigation for those risks. The content focuses on PV
systems, but it could be applied to any DER.
The guidelines note a set of scenarios in which unintentional islanding is considered impossible.
These include the following (Ropp and Ellis 2013):
- Load exceeds DER capacity. A sustained island is impossible if the aggregated nameplate
AC rating of all DERs within the potential island is less than the minimum real power
load within the island. Because the load exceeds what the DER can support by itself, the
load will quickly reduce the voltage to less than the programmed low-voltage threshold in
the DERs if an island forms.
- Reactive power supply and demand cannot be maintained. This relies on the principle
that for an island to be sustained, both the active and reactive demand within the island
must be supplied by the DERs. All loads with motors require reactive power. In scenarios
where the inverter is operating at unity power factor, with negligible reactive power
contribution, reactive power is supplied by the source at the substation or capacitor banks
along the distribution line. Situations when the inverter is regulating its VAR supply,
however, might require further study. Note that in an inverter-based island, volt-VAR
control ceases to stabilize voltage, so it does not increase the islanding risk.
- External supplemental mechanisms are used. Examples of external supplemental
mechanisms for anti-islanding protection include communications-based methods, such
as DTT, power line carrier permissive signal, and supervisory control and data
acquisition systems.
Ropp and Ellis (2013) also noted that several scenarios could present challenges to current built-
in anti-islanding methods. These include the following:
- The potential island contains large capacitors and is operating near unity power factor
(within 1%). Note, however, that this relies on knowledge of what method of anti-
islanding detection the PV inverters are using. The study is relevant only if all inverters
are using positive feedback on frequency.
- High-penetration scenarios. Studies have shown that the speed of anti-islanding detection
could decrease as the number of inverters in the island increases; however, there are
variations in effectiveness-for example, anti-islanding detection speed could be
maintained if all the inverters use positive feedback and the interconnecting impedances
between inverters is low. An example of this type of deployment is given as a
commercial installation on a common distribution transformer.

=== page 31 ===
23
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
- Deployments with different types of PV inverters. Studies have shown that deployments
with PV inverters with different manufacturers degrade anti-islanding detection
performance. (Note that these guidelines were written in 2012 and updated in 2013.
Additional studies have been done since then to further investigate this. See Section 4.5
of this document for the related discussion under multiple-inverter scenarios.)
- Deployments with both PV inverters and rotating generators. The anti-islanding
mechanisms in these could interfere with each other enough to degrade the performance
of the anti-islanding detection in both types of generators.
Considering these elements, Ropp and Ellis (2013) suggested a four-step process for assessing
unintentional islanding risk. This process is summarized in the flowchart in Figure 9.
If the screening shows there could be a risk of unintentional islanding, additional study should be
performed. Additional study could involve more detailed modeling of the distribution circuit
equipment, DER, loads, and area EPS protection schemes.29
Depending on the results of the detailed study,30 mitigation by supplemental means of anti-
islanding protection may be needed.
Given the new requirements specified in IEEE Std 1547-2018, there is renewed discussion on
whether and how these guidelines should be updated or whether new tools may be necessary to
effectively screen for risk of islanding.

29 For a detailed discussion of the topic, see IEEE Std 1547.7 Guide for Conducting Distribution Impact Studies for
Distributed Resource Interconnection.
30 See the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association's PV System Impact Guide for examples of PV
interconnection impact studies, including risk of islanding screening, https://www.cooperative.com/programs-
services/bts/Documents/SUNDA/NRECA%20-%20SUNDA%20Impact%20Guide-v3%20final.pdf.

=== page 32 ===
24
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Source: Based on procedure described in Ropp and Ellis 2013
Figure 9. Procedure for assessing risk of unintentional islanding

=== page 33 ===
25
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
6 Conclusion
As noted, topics related to unintentional islanding risk and prevention have been and continue to
be of concern and thus the topic of continued research and discussion. Recent activities under the
California Public Utilities Commission Interconnection Rulemaking (R.17-07-007, "Rule 21")
are an example. Under these activities, California utilities, developers, the utility commission,
and other stakeholders have determined that a formal working group is needed to discuss the
topic in more detail.31
Discussions in other jurisdictions related to unintentional islanding will likely happen as updates
are made to interconnection requirements to reflect the latest revision of IEEE Std 1547-2018.

31 See the California Public Utilities Commission Rulemaking 17-07-007: Decision Addressing Remaining Phase I
Issues (page 90) for more discussion:
https://docs.cpuc.ca.gov/PublishedDocs/Published/G000/M387/K064/387064665.PDF.

=== page 34 ===
26
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
References
Barker, Philip P., and Robert W. De Mello. 2000. "Determining the Impact of Distributed
Generation on Power Systems. I. Radial Distribution Systems." 2000 Power Engineering Society
Summer Meeting (Cat. No.00CH37134) 3 (3): 1645-56.
https://doi.org/10.1109/PESS.2000.868775.
Bebic, Jovan, Chase Sun, and William Marin. 2016. Quantification of Risk of Unintended
Islanding and Re-Assessment of Interconnection Requirements in High Penetration of Customer
Sited PV Generation. Schenectady, NY: GE Consulting.
https://www.calsolarresearch.ca.gov/images/stories/documents/Sol3_funded_proj_docs/GE/3_C
SI-RDD_Sol3_GE_Risk-of-Unintended-Islanding_FinalRpt_2016-08.pdf.
Bower, Ward I., and Michael Ropp. 2002. Evaluation of Islanding Detection Methods for Utility-
Interactive Inverters in Photovoltaic Systems. Albuquerque, New Mexico: Sandia National
Laboratories. SAND2002-3591. https://doi.org/10.2172/806700.
California Public Utilities Commission. 2020. Working Group Four Final Report. San Francisco,
CA. https://gridworks.org/initiatives/rule-21-working-group-4/.
Cullen, Neil, Jim Thornycroft, and Alan Collinson. 2002. Risk Analysis of Islanding of
Photovoltaic Power Systems within Low Voltage Distribution Networks. Paris, France:
International Energy Agency. IEA-PVPS T5-08. https://iea-pvps.org/wp-
content/uploads/2020/01/rep5_08.pdf.
Etxegarai, A., P. Eguía, and I. Zamora. 2011. "Analysis of Remote Islanding Detection Methods
for Distributed Resources." In 2011 International Conference on Renewable Energies and Power
Quality.
Hoke, Anderson, Austin Nelson, Brian Miller, Sudipta Chakraborty, Frances Bell, and Michael
McCarty. 2016. Experimental Evaluation of PV Inverter Anti-Islanding with Grid Support
Functions in Multi-Inverter Island Scenarios. Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy
Laboratory. NREL/TP-5D00-66732. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy16osti/66732.pdf.
Ingram, Michael, David J. Narang, Barry A. Mather, and Benjamin D. Kroposki. 2017.
Supplemental Information for New York State Standardized Interconnection Requirements.
Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy Laboratory. NREL/TP-5D00-70183.
https://doi.org/10.2172/1405920.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). 2008. IEEE Std C37.2-2008 - IEEE
Standard Electrical Power System Device Function Numbers, Acronyms, and Contact
Designations. Piscataway, NY.
---. 2018. IEEE Std 1547-2018 - IEEE Standard for Interconnection and Interoperability of
Distributed Energy Resources with Associated Electric Power Systems Interfaces. Piscataway,
NY: 2018. https://standards.ieee.org/standard/1547-2018.html.

=== page 35 ===
27
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
---. 2020. IEEE 1547.1-2020 - IEEE Standard Conformance Test Procedures for Equipment
Interconnecting Distributed Energy Resources with Electric Power Systems and Associated
Interfaces. https://standards.ieee.org/standard/1547_1-2020.html.
Kroposki, Ben. 2016. "Prevention of Unintentional Islands in Power Systems with Distributed
Resources." Presented on August 24, 2016. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy16osti/67185.pdf.
Pansini, Anthony J. 2005. Guide to Electrical Power Distribution Systems. Sixth Edition.
Lilburn, GA: The Fairmont Press, Inc.
Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E). 2018. "Appendix F: Telemetering and Transfer Trip
for Transmission Generation Entities." In PG&E Transmission Interconnection Handbook. San
Francisco, CA: November 18, 2018. Accessed December 29, 2021.
https://www.pge.com/web/includes/docs/pdfs/shared/rates/tariffbook/ferc/tih/app_f.pdf.

Ropp, Michael, and Abraham Ellis. 2013. Suggested Guidelines for Assessment of DG
Unintentional Islanding Risk. Albuquerque, NM: Sandia National Laboratories.
https://energy.sandia.gov/wp-content/gallery/uploads/SAND2012-1365-v2.pdf.
Ropp, Michael, Chris Mouw, Dustin Schutz, Scott Perlenfein, Sigifredo Gonzalez, and Abraham
Ellis. 2018. Unintentional Islanding Detection Performance with Mixed DER Types.
Albuquerque, NM: Sandia National Laboratories. SAND2018-8431.
https://www.osti.gov/servlets/purl/1463446.
Ropp, Michael, Scott Perlenfein, Dustin Schutz, Chris Mouw, Jason Neely, Sigifredo Gonzalez,
and Lee Rashkin. 2019. Evaluation of Multi-Inverter Anti-Islanding with Grid Support and Ride-
Through and Investigation of Island Detection Alternatives. Albuquerque, NM: Sandia National
Laboratories. SAND2019-0499. https://doi.org/10.2172/1491604.
Seguin, Rich, Jeremy Woyak, David Costyk, Josh Hambrick, and Barry Mather. 2016. High-
Penetration PV Integration Handbook for Distribution Engineers. Golden, CO: National
Renewable Energy Laboratory. NREL/TP-5D00-63114. https://doi.org/10.2172/1235905.
Stevens, Iii, Russell H. Bonn, Jerry W. Ginn, Sigifredo Gonzalez, and Greg Kern. 2000.
"Development and Testing of an Approach to Anti-Islanding in Utility-Interconnected
Photovoltaic Systems." Albuquerque, NM, and Livermore, CA: Sandia National Laboratories.
SAND2000-1939. https://doi.org/10.2172/759506.
Verhoeven, Bas. 2002. Probability of Islanding in Utility Networks Due to Grid-Connected
Photovoltaic Power Systems. Paris, France: International Energy Agency. https://iea-
pvps.org/key-topics/probability-of-islanding-in-utility-networks-due-to-grid-connected-
photovoltaic-power-systems-2002/.
Walling, R. A., and N. W. Miller. 2002. "Distributed Generation Islanding-Implications on
Power System Dynamic Performance." IEEE Power Engineering Society Summer Meeting 1 (1):
92-96. https://doi.org/10.1109/PESS.2002.1043183.

=== page 36 ===
28
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Woyte, Achim, Karel De Brabandere, Daniel Van Dommelen, Ronnie Belmans, and Johan Nijs.
2003. "International Harmonization of Grid Connection Guidelines: Adequate Requirements for
the Prevention of Unintentional Islanding." Progress in Photovoltaics: Research and
Applications 11 (6): 407-24. https://doi.org/10.1002/pip.503.

=== page 37 ===
29
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Bibliography
Gridworks. 2021. "Rule 21: Working Group 4." https://gridworks.org/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/R21-WG4-Final-Report.pdf.
Hoke, A., A. Nelson, S. Chakraborty, J. Chebahtah, T. Wang, and M. McCarty. 2015. Inverter
Ground Fault Overvoltage Testing. Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
NREL/TP-5D00-64173.https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy15osti/64173.pdf.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). 2011. IEEE Std 147.4-2011 - IEEE
Guide for Design, Operation, and Integration of Distributed Resource Island Systems with
Electric Power Systems. Piscataway, NY.
---. 2013. IEEE Std 1547.7.2013 - IEEE Guide for Conducting Distribution Impact Studies
for Distributed Resource Interconnection. Piscataway, NY.
---. 2015. IEEE Std C62.92.4 - IEEE Guide for the Application of Neutral Grounding in
Electrical Utility Systems-Part IV: Distribution. Piscataway, NY.
---. 2021. IEEE Std 1547-2018 (Revision of IEEE Std 1547-2003)." IEEE Standards
Coordinating Committee 21 (SCC21). https://sagroups.ieee.org/scc21/standards/1547rev/.
National Renewable Energy Laboratory. 2021. "IEEE 1547-2018 Resources."
https://www.nrel.gov/grid/ieee-standard-1547/.
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association. 2018. PV System Impact Guide.
https://www.cooperative.com/programs-services/bts/Documents/SUNDA/NRECA%20-
%20SUNDA%20Impact%20Guide-v3%20final.pdf. Arlington, VA.
Nelson, A., A. Hoke, S. Chakraborty, J. Chebahtah, T. Wang, and B. Zimmerly. 2015. Inverter
Load Rejection Over-Voltage Testing. Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
NREL/TP-5D00-63510. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy15osti/63510.pdf.
Seguin, R., J. Woyak, D. Costyk, J. Hambrick, and B. Mather. 2016. High-Penetration PV
Integration Handbook for Distribution Engineers. Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy
Laboratory. NREL/TP-5D00-63114. https://www.osti.gov/biblio/1235905.
UL. 2021. UL 1741 - Standard for Safety for Inverters, Converters, Controllers, and
Interconnection System Equipment for Use with Distributed Energy Resources. Northbrook, IL.

=== page 38 ===
30
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Appendix: Summary of Supplementary Anti-Islanding
Protection Methods32
Due to equipment and personnel safety dimensions, some jurisdictions apply additional methods
to ensure that distributed energy resources (DERs) do not island. This appendix summarizes
these concerns and supplementary anti-islanding protection strategies.
Many methods can be used to protect against unintentional islands. Some commonly used
methods include protective relays for the detection of over-/underfrequency or over-
/undervoltage, reverse power detection, or minimum import/export relays, impedance insertion,
power line carrier communications, and direct transfer trip (DTT) (Kroposki 2016; Bower and
Ropp 2002).
Direct Transfer Trip
DTT is one of several schemes used to avoid sustained unintentional islanding. DTT uses a
communications signal from an area electric power system (EPS) component, such as a feeder
breaker or an automatic line-sectionalizing device, to command the DER to disconnect from the
circuit. DTT could also be implemented with the addition of sync-check relaying or
undervoltage-permissive relaying at the feeder breaker or automatic line-sectionalizing devices
to maintain coordination with protection schemes. DTT might require communications from not
only the substation breaker but also any automatic line-sectionalizing devices upstream from the
DERs.
Several options for DTT communications are available. Utilities will typically specify their
preferred method,33 which could include:
- Direct fiber to substation with proper interface provisioning
- Licensed microwave with proper interface provisioning
- Class A DS0, 4-wire, leased line provisions by local exchange carrier
- Telecommunications options via Class B, T1 lease options.
DTT can also eliminate out-of-phase reclosing concerns because the recloser action can be
coordinated with tripping schemes to ensure that no unintentional islands are formed.
Even with DTT, depending on the latency of the trip signal, fast reclosing schemes might need to
be reviewed and either slowed down to guarantee that the DER stops generating prior to the first
reclosing action or otherwise modified to maintain protective coordination.
DTT is generally considered only for large DER installations because of its high cost to
implement. Costs vary among locations. One report done by the California Rule 21 Working
Group Four for the California market notes (California Public Utilities Commission 2020):

32 Note that some of these methods will achieve only partial compliance with the IEEE Std 1547-2018 requirements.
33 For an example, see the Pacific Gas and Electric Company's (PG&E's) Transmission Interconnection Handbook,
noted in this document's references.

=== page 39 ===
31
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
The cost of installing DTT is significant and, in some cases, the single largest cost
of new machine generation projects. PG&E's Unit Cost Guide states that the base
cost of a single DTT scheme, including paired transmitter and receiver, is
$600,000, and the base cost of a recloser is $80,000. 12 Multiple DTT units can
be required, increasing the base cost accordingly. If related costs, such as Cost of
Ownership (COO) and Income Tax Component of Contribution (ITCC) are
included, the all-inclusive cost to the developer for DTT and reclosers is roughly
double the base cost. The costs of DTT can exceed the cost of the generator itself,
in all cases becoming a substantial part of overall costs, and can affect project
viability. Other related costs such as leased line communications infrastructure
can be particularly expensive in less-urban areas. The costs of DTT are
particularly relevant in more rural areas of the state where the grid is radial and
DTT is applied to numerous substations.
These upgrades frequently force renewable DER projects to withdraw
interconnection applications due to their high interconnection costs and/or long
implementation timelines. Installation of DTT can take up to 18-24 months to
complete. Installation of a recloser can take up to 6-12 months to complete.
Supplemental Over-/Underfrequency or Over-/Undervoltage Protective
Relays
Supplemental protective relays are typically installed by electric utilities on larger DER systems,
regardless of similar relaying and protection functions residing withing the DER system. Over-
/undervoltage and frequency trip settings are programmed into the relays. If the relay detects
these parameters outside the acceptable window, the relay trips and causes the DER to shut
down.
Reverse Power or Minimum Import/Export Relays
Reverse power or minimum import/export relays are passive anti-islanding techniques. These
methods add overvoltage/undervoltage and over-/underfrequency trip settings implemented
through relay functions (57/27, 81/8134). These settings define an acceptable range of voltage
and frequency limits. If the measured conditions are outside of this range, the DERs trip offline.
If supplemental anti-islanding protection is required, this approach is often used when DERs are
not expected to export power to the grid (e.g., when local loads are larger than the DERs, and all
generated power is consumed on-site). In these cases, an additional protective relay function
(Function 32: reverse power) is added to the site relay scheme to disconnect the DERs if the
relay senses that they are exporting power, as shown in Figure A-1 (Kroposki 2016).

34 IEEE Std C37.2 defines relay device functions as follows: Device number 59 is for overvoltage relay, device
number 27 is for undervoltage; and device numbers 81 and 81 are for overfrequency and underfrequency,
respectively (IEEE 2008).

=== page 40 ===
32
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Source: Kroposki 2016
Figure A-1. Relay functions
Reverse or minimum import active power unintentional islanding protection provides full
conformance if all tests are satisfactorily met. Note: The reverse or minimum import active
power flow protection device is sensed between the point of DER connection or the point of
common coupling and will disconnect or isolate the DERs if the power flow falls to less than a
set threshold or reverses. For multiphase devices, tests are conducted on each phase and all
phases simultaneously. For DERs having a range of adjustable minimum import active power
settings, the tests are to be repeated for the minimum and maximum import active power
settings.
IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 Clause 5.10.5 provides information on testing reverse or minimum import
active power flow functionality.
Permissive Hardware Input
This method uses DERs fitted with hardware that responds to an unintentional islanding
condition by ceasing to energize within the required response time of 2 seconds or other
mutually agreed-upon response time. Examples of the types of hardware that can be used are
contact closure, a transistor-transistor logic signal, or other hardware means. An example of the
signal could be DTT.
Note that this is separate from the permit service function.
The hardware input test, described in IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 Clause 5.10.4, does not require
balanced resistive-inductive-capacitive loads or a contactor to remove the utility and island the
DER. It does require the monitoring of the permissive and nonpermissive state and a method to
trigger data capture to determine the response times.
Impedance Insertion
This method requires the installation of a low-value-impedance device on the utility side of a
distribution transformer. Figure A-2 shows the addition of a capacitor bank (connected at point
b). Under this method, if the circuit on the left side of the switch at point b were to become

=== page 41 ===
33
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
islanded, the capacitor bank is commanded to close after a short delay. The addition of the
capacitor bank functions to disrupt the balance of generation to load in the island (Bower and
Ropp 2002).

Source: Bower and Ropp 2002
Figure A-2. One-line diagram of the impedance insertion method using a capacitor bank
Power Line-Conducted Permissive Signal Testing
This method of anti-islanding protection relies on a signal conducted on the distribution primary
line. DERs designed for this type of unintentional islanding method will have a receiver that
monitors the presence of the permissive signal, and upon the loss of signal, the DER must cease
to energize and trip within 2 seconds.
A one-line diagram of the concept is presented in Figure A-3. In the figure, the box labeled "T"
transmits a signal to the receiver, marked "R." As long as the signal is present, the DER has
permission to operate. If the signal is discontinued, the circuit-interrupting device disconnects the
DER within the required time.

Source: Bower and Ropp 2002
Figure A-3. One-line diagram of power line carrier communications method
Because the power line-conducted permissive signal unintentional islanding method requires the
transmission of the permissive signal, only partial compliance is granted when successfully
detecting the absence of the permissive signal and ceasing to energize within the required

=== page 42 ===
34
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory at www.nrel.gov/publications.
response time. The absence of a permissive signal on all phases of a DER is indicative of the loss
of continuity of the power line and represents an islanded situation, so upon loss of the
permissive signal, the DER must cease to energize and trip.
The laboratory test procedure in IEEE Std 1547.1-2020 Clause 5.10.3 requires an attenuation of
the signal to evaluate the signal strength requirements. Note that the power connection is never
interrupted-only the permissive signal path is interrupted or attenuated; therefore, there is no
need for load banks, a test matrix, or a need to isolate generation with load.
Note that in this method, if there is a loss of the permissive signal for any reason, there is no
provision to allow the DER to reenergize the area EPS after it has tripped. This contrasts with
onboard methods that reenergize after the required time delay after a trip has lapsed and the
voltage and frequency at the point of DER connection is within operating ranges. The DER can
reenergize the area EPS only if the permissive signal is present.
Ongoing Research on Additional Methods of Islanding Detection
Efforts have been ongoing to develop new methods of unintentional islanding detection and
mitigation that adequately address future concerns. These methods include islanding detection
based on synchrophasors and centralized islanding detection (inter-tripping schemes) (Etxegarai,
Eguía, and Zamora 2011).
Phasor Measurement Unit-Based Islanding Detection
This method uses two phasor measurement units: one located at the grid side and one at the
DER. If the signals from the two units are not comparable within certain parameters, a circuit
breaker is tripped to turn off the DER (Etxegarai, Eguía, and Zamora 2011).
Centralized Detection of Unintentional Islanding
Centralized detection of unintentional islanding is based on the use of a central controller
connected to all the circuit breakers and all the individual DERs in the circuit via an Ethernet
link. The central controller hosts an islanding detection algorithm that monitors the circuit. If an
island is detected, the central controller sends tripping commands to the DERs.
