So that at the end, we can all possible pitches, we will be able to proceed. you probably remember that you your power system last called tour Yeah, we're gonna talk about some of the things we call last fall, I think we went to Jones Creek this year and stayed in the hospital. Yeah, one of my crypto currencies. Yes. 
All right, so yeah, thanks for picking up Schwint for the time for allowing me to pitch JA's idea for a senior design project. So our idea is a tabletop distribution grid and automation trainer. So this would be an innovative hands-on learning for the modern power system. 
So, um, Dr. Pinions are already giving y'all basically my PowerPoint slide here. I did graduate from here in 2015 with a concentration in electrical. I did do the one year co-op with JA. 
I will give y'all my 5 minute plug on that after this is over with. I have 7 plus years of experiencing cooperative electric distribution design, which is kind of niche in power design. I did that in Chickasaw Electric cooperative, which is about an hour south here in Faye County. 
I've been back in JA for about 3 years. This is home for me. I was born and raised here in Jackson. 
So, an opportunity to come back and work in JA was well worth the jump. I did get my PE license and the power discipline in 2018, and currently I oversee all the engineering for the electric and telecom divisions that Jake. So a little bit about JEA, for those of you who aren't as familiar. 
We were incorporated in 1936, so been doing this for 90 years now over a multiservice utility providing electric, natural gas, propane, wastewater, and roll band, services to roughly 35,000 customers. So we call that a monopoly. JEA was the 1st utility in the state of Tennessee to deliver a full fiber to the home network. 
Most people hear about EPB and the great things they do in Chattanooga. Um, they have an awesome, um, gig service, full fire to the home, but JA actually was the 1st to do it in 2004. They had nationally recognized by both APPA and APGA for reliability and performance metrics. 
The electric division operates over 700 miles of distribution and transmission lines across Madison County, the electric division is responsible for the operation and maintenance of 53 power transformers across 29 substation locations. That amounts to about 300 million implant prior to depreciation. If you take depreciation into consideration. 
It's probably closer to 160 to 170. All right. No, just they have a laser. 
No, no. I'm just gonna push both. Oh, okay. 
So power distribution. How can I get that to go away? It's gonna be bullish. 
Thanks. There we go. Okay, so, everybody, I guess, visited the Jones Creek substation in the fall. 
We've all taken Dr. Schwinn. It's power systems class, so everybody's pretty familiar with how this goes. Um, there's a generator, um, who happens to be TBA for almost 10, Tennessee, and about six of the surrounding states impartial. 
They generate all the electricity that's consumed. They transmit it to over 100 LPCs, across the state of Tennessee, Kentucky, Virginia, Bill, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, you know, basically all the states that touches. They step it up anywhere from 500 to 161,000 volts from transmitted all across the state, to which the LPCs received it, and distributed amongst the, you know, their territories. 
Some LPCs, such as JA, operate what's called a subtransmission system, so as someone riding around in the middle of 69,000 volts. Ours happens to be 46, we're a little less uncommon on the voltage. From there, we take it, and distributed across those 29 substation locations I was talking about. 
We stepped it down again. This is 138, JEH 12 470. We run it all over the city and county. 
We'll step it down again to a delivery voltage. This building happens to be 2774 80. I did the design on the extension of the building. 
So, um, that's power distribution at a really high level. That's how it gets from being generated from nuclear, coal, whatever all the way through the conductors, through the transformers, all the way down to the service level. That's cool, but let's talk about the components that make that up for a little bit of background. 
In most substations, you're gonna have a circuit breaker. It's kind of your, if you want to think about it the way I do. It's kind of your last line of protection. 
If a fault occurs out on the distribution somewhere, somewhere between where that fault occurs and all the way back to the substation, you've got different levels of protection. That circuit breakers, the last one. That's what you want to trip before we have a failure inside of the substation. 
So it's pretty simple. made up of sick pushings on top, loading source. It's got vacuum interrupters inside of it that are magnetically actuated. And so when it sees foil current, at times, it opens, it clears the vault inside a vacuum, and we de-energize the lines of fault will be corrected. 
The thing in the middle, that is called a Viper ST reclosure, it works the exact same way as that circuit breaker does, except we hang on out on the pole for overhead distribution. Six pushings, three vacuum models, of course the exact same. The device on the end is an SEL 351S relay. the brains of the operation. 
It's the one that's gonna be hooked up to the CTs. It's gonna read current values, based on the current values. It's gonna make a decision on how fast should I open, should I reclose, or should I lock out, and just leave it permanently? 
Patton on a Transformers, the one on the left, that's the single face Transformer, that's the one everybody plays on in the subdivisions and does backflips off of. Inside, it's pretty simple. On the left-hand side. 
You've got 2 primary wishings, incoming and outgoing, and then on the right, you've got 3 secondary pushings, 2 phase to ground, and then one neutral, pushing. Going on the right. It's a 3 phase pad by a transformer. 
It's got 6 primary bushings, 3 in, 3 out. And on the right, it's got 4 secondary studs, 3 or 3, line underground, plus lead. All right. 
This right here is called a pad now switch gear. This is the device that won't be all to get the most familiar with, because it's gonna be heavily introduced in my pitch. Um, top lift, if you saw it driving down the road, that's all it would look like, is a big green square. 
But on the inside of it, it's actually made up of four compartments, and the diagram in the bottom right kind of shows you how those departments can be made up of highly configurable. This one here happens to be a two switch to VCB, so that's just a vacuum circuit breaker. And think of it like this. 
If you had feeder or the incoming line coming into a single compartment, it hits a uniform busway. And then out of that busway, it would go three different directions. One direction is switched. 
For all intents and purposes, it's just dumb. It's a manual operation, it's open and close. But the BCBs are controllable. 
So, they can actually opening clothes based on whatever the picture in the lift that's got the relays that I just showed you all tells do. It can be based on Paul Current, can be based on skater values, manual operations, it has push buttons. So if you're in an underground distribution system, like what we have downtown, what we have right here, through van drive, all across Union's campus, there's actually a switch gear here on campus, two of them, actually. 
These can make decisions based on inputs, they're not dumb. They're smart, they're controllable. This is the future of underground distribution. 
They cost about $25,000. Um, so let's get to the project. What does JEA want? 
We're asking students to build a scaled model of an underground distribution system that mirrors real-world components and utility operations in an academic set. Students will integrate the power systems, sensing, communications, control logic, and HMI, or human machine interfaces for comprehensive learning. You will simulate system faults, to demonstrate distribution automation, and FLIZzer concepts. 
I'll get into flizzard here in just a minute. And, of course, this is highly industry applicable. It's sponsored by utility that's already implemented in these concepts today, and if you were to get on the DOE's website, the state of Tennessee, the majority of the grant money being funded right now is for concepts such as this. 
So the purpose and objectives of the trainer, um, let's design and build a tabletop distribution automation system that mimics the real electric figure operations for fault management. And once again, we're gonna implement logic, switching sequences, and verification steps based on actual utility practices and skated concepts using an SER tag. And SELR attack is one of those blue boxes, it's the brains of all this, it receives the digital inputs and has outputs to control these devices. 
So, um, the system level engineering focus is on the behavior of the system. with states and operator feedback, with system measurement. The project will involve designing and building a radio feeder with two power sources and a normally open task pitch. This is gonna make more sense. 
We're also asking to interconnect the ER system to this created, to introduce biodirectional power flow, and demonstrate the importance of I W A 1547 standards. I should believe 1547 governs how DERs are interconnected to the grid, mainly anti island. When the utility loses voltage, typically, you want the DER to open up so that you don't backfeed a fault or, you know, injured personnel working on the system. 
So this table trainer is going to be used to teach younger engineers and linemen, basic distributions, toleration concepts. We have monthly safety meetings where we do near misses and things of that nature. yearly, we also review, JJ currently has 4 or 5 distribution automation schemes set up on the system. This training would be used in that environment, plus local high schools, local institutions, to talk about the distribution grid and fault management. 
So, FLizzard, what is Flizzard? Um, so most people say their lights blamed, the power goes out, and we don't really have a full understanding of what's going on on the distribution system. So we're gonna start in the top lift, and then kind of work our way clockwise around. 
And this is essentially what we're gonna be building on a tabletop display. So in the left, uppermost corner of the top left, picture, you have 2 substations. Those are your 2 sources. 
And as you work your way along the overhead distribution system, you have devices on poles that also have either a red or green square recital. Those are reclosers. Those are the vipers that I showed you in the components sections earlier. 
Those are controllable devices. They have CTs. They can visibly see what's happening out on the distribution system. 
So, two sources coming along, and they come to a normally open time switch, which is the green, squared, in the middle. Okay, so let's say a fault happens where the red lightning bolt is, tree falls into the line, someone digs into some other underground cable, squirrel gets up into something that's not supposed to, boom, knocks the lights out. So, normally, circuit breaker opens, it clears defaults, you have, you know, 3 or 4 customers on the right hand side of that diagram, their lights are out. 
That's how it works. 75% is high level distribution system. Now, okay, now we know we have an outage. It's a manual truck roll. 
We go look. Okay, we may be able to isolate the fault. We may not be. 
And you know, three, four, five, 6 hours later, everything's resolved. Let's introduce flizzing. So let's go down to the bottom right image. 
Same fault. So if your breaker still sees it, It still opens, we still have to clear the fall, but now because we have multiple devices, and because of the prevalence of communications and multiple controllable devices, now we can start talking to each other, making intelligent decisions, and you notice, there happens to be another device, just on the other side, the downstream side of the fall. Well, it knows it didn't see the fall. 
And it communicates back to the substation and the substation says, yeah, I got it. So we know the faults between us. Well, now it's gonna open up. 
Now we've isolated our fault. So the next most logical thing is to go to the tie switch, and I switch didn't see anything. So let's close, and let's back feed back around to our new opening point, and now we just got, in this case, three customers back online, but that could amount to 3,000 in the real world, which drives your Sadie, Kafe, all your safety and reliability indexes. 
It drastically improves those that we have to report on every year. So that's blizzard. We're currently doing this, I just said, and very poorly. 
Um, and then, you know, after the fault has been taken care of, we get the tree off the line, we splice the cable, whatever it may be, we put the system back to them. So right here was where I was gonna have a cool video, so y'all can see some of these devices. So, this gentleman here, he's with surveillance, surveillance, is a skating system, it's kind of a back-end software that helps control, flizzard, and some of these outgoing technologies. 
We don't use surveillance. We have a different scale system, but it's still the same principle. And automation, simulation, demonstration area, and this is one of the technologies that we talked about in the introduction. 
This is probably the neatest thing we have here, because we have real live GNW switch here. The same switch gear that you would actually have out in the field at a distribution utility. And they're hooked up with motor operators, relays, all communicating back to the surveillance master station. 
And this is the one line diagram that we have. We have two substation sources, and we have a bunch of switches, and we have a bunch of areas where we can put in a mock fault, correct? Now, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to put a fault in right here at C, and I'm going to lose that line right there, and we're going to watch how surveillance technology reconfigures and restores power to as much of a grid as it possibly can. 
And here we go. So, I'm down C and D sections. I'm gonna open on each side of the fault, and I'm gonna close in another source, and I restore D, which happens to be the data setter load. 
And that was the final technology that we were going to show it to you today. Thanks so much for joining us. I have the fund of interest, and we look forward to working with you in the future. 
So J.A. doesn't have luxury, that's probably 150 to $200,000 of components sitting around in a lab to demonstrate a blizzard. But I think we can do this on a tabletop and accomplish the same thing. So how are we gonna do it? 
Physical project for Liverpool. This is kind of what we're looking for and getting into the weeds of how I envision this going. And we're looking for affordable tabletop display with 3D printed power system components. 
So, you know, we can do this to scale once we decide what all's gonna be in the moment. It would be a fully functional power system grid on low voltage, 2 power sources. It would have variable resistant loads at each house or industry location. 
We'll explain why we're gonna do that. We would strategically install voltage and current sensors throughout the distribution grid. This is gonna help build out the HMI, and this will also help us scale this to a real world utility location. 
Um, we've already talked about the DER interconnection, and then we will use a PLC that's capable of implementing Twizard. JEA would like to provide y'all with an SELR tech that is a real-time automation controller. It is the leader, the industry leader, for automation controllers. 
And you can see it on the back. It's got, you know, all your comms from your circle horse, your easy networks, do all your input output cars. It's easily expandable, even if we had to have, like, a separate hour war or something, depending on, I don't know how crazy we get. 
And then using this art tech, we can build an HMI. Real-time HMI, and that's what you kind of saw in the surveillance video. It's the same thing. 
It's just an HMI, it's a one line of the system, where you can see how much current is flowing from your sources. You can monitor the status, the longer devices, you can check voltage along the way, and this will be where all the blizzard commands are generated and set out to our controllable switches on our display. So, to this point, it's just a toy, right? 
We really haven't done, haven't done much engineering. So what are we gonna what are we gonna integrate into the project to make it more industry applicable? So I'm proposing to scale the tabletop model in MillSoft, EA, to analyze the power flow, the distribution system that's built by students. 
So MillSoft is something that I use daily to analyze JA's transmission distribution system. So in the top left-hand corner, what you got is just a screenshot of, I think that's our bottom wood substation. No, the British just a one line of what's going on out there. 
What I currently have highlighted is the Substation Transformer, our LTCs are usually set on a baseball on 20 scale at 123.5 . So that's what you can see, there's 122.7 volts at the LTC, and it's got, you know, 63 primary ends trying to do it. Um, total connected KDA of 18 NBA. 
Bottom left hand corner. So I went way out in the rural part of Southwest Madison County. I picked a figure that's almost as far away from the source as you can get it. 
And at the end of the line, it looked like one of the consumers had a house voltage of 117.8, which is still inside of anti applicable range limits, which is close to minds. 5% of the baseball. So we can do this same modeling with the tabletop demo, inside builds all, picking, we can create our two sources, we can create a distribution system, and using those variable resistant loads I was talking about, we can do powerful analysis and look at things like voltage draw. We can now see how the impedance of the system affects the voltage truck. 
So another component of this will have to model it. to see if Clizzard is even a candidate for the grid that we build. We can't just start switching around a bunch of load with ampacities. We don't know that, you know, the Wikato from a different source. 
We've already talked about actually 1547. I just mentioned anti-standards. Um, you will also be introduced to any of C standards. 
These are the 3 major standards that go over design and operation on a electric distribution. So another thing that I would like to introduce y'all to, and this is basically system coordination, system perfection. I talked about how the devices open and close when you tell it to, or based on the current that's input into the device. 
So what you see on the left side of the screen. Those are time current occurs, TCCs. So basically that device is going to operate along the curve at a time value based on currency. 
So why is that important? Well, if you've got 4 or 5 devices on the same radial feed, you're all looking at the same fall, we don't want all of them to open at the same time. So you have to program them using TCC curves to maybe slow the reaction down of the 1st one in line. 
You want the one closest to the fall pottery, essentially. So that's what we use TCC for. And we could model PCCs for each device that we put into our distribution period to make sure that, you know, the coordination is solid and it would, it would actually work. 
So, let me wrap it up here, and then we're gonna take a question. So long term impact, why do I think it's a viable budget? So this is real world power systems experience. 
You're gonna be implementing modern distribution system concepts. You're gonna have exposure to RTAC and status style control, which dominate the market. And this experience is gonna mirror what us utilities and consumers out on the line face every day. 
It's more disciplinary from power systems, controls, communications, hardware design, and we're gonna ridge theory and real world grid operations. So from the system modeling and mill soft to the physical construction and measurement on the trainer. Um, I believe this is a resume level, um, Roger. 
Quite frankly, I think that if you were a hiring utility EBC consultant, anything in grid modernization, this would be looked at favorably. And then JA's got to use it for workforce development. We want to train the workforce of the future in the modern grid in the future. 
And this is definitely where things are trending with the all the communications. I said, JA, fire to the home. So literally we have fiber pretty much all over the system, so it makes communications between devices pretty simple. 
And so we want our young engineers and we want our young linemen to be prepared. So with that? I'll take any questions. 
I might have missed this. What's skating? Skating? 
Okay, so it stands for supervisory control, and data acquisition. So, when most people think skaters, they think that screen right there. Because although it's an HMI and it's got, you know, it's got visible measurements. 
Typically, you can click on this and you can also control whatever device that you're mirror in real time. do. I got another, uh, acronym question. I think I was DER as in DER integration. 
You know, distributed energy resources. Solar, wind, batteries. Um, we probably go through the or application solar, someone's doing a rooftop solar. 
Probably once every two, 3 months. They're usually small systems, less than 10 KW. It's generally not even enough power of the house. 
Maybe a central circuit element. Okay, so the... As part of this, will the foods have to do without a logic type problem and all that? 
Yeah. So, myself and Michael, um, would help get the students introduced to the, um, coding language, it's super... But yes, there would be programming involved smart tags and controlled otherwise. 
You said we'd be modeling this on some website. What was the name of that website? Or... software? 
Yeah, software. Yeah. They, they, that's who JA currently uses for all their engineering analysis. 
Yeah, we model our entire transmission distribution system. So it's, like, peace spies for the power for a real power system. Exactly. 
What we do, our LRPs, our long run, our long range planes, um, so we'll, you know, we'll ramp up, ampacities, I'll drop nodes or loads on the system, do powerful analysis. You distinguish skate up in the 8 million? Is it hope to implement mosquito or to have it be manually fault? 
So... Here with the R tech agent water, it'll be more than a second. So, it'll, it will control the devices on the table top from the hard technique tomorrow. 
But based on logic, it will do it automatically. Well, the students be able to, uh, eat on a laptop going somewhere, they have access to their software, but that's something they, they have to come in to JA. Yeah, they're probably gonna have to come to JA because it's licensed. 
We have to choose bunker, or they could just come up to the engineering department. And first, uh, Right across. Yeah. 
Used to be called the Tanner. Okay. Okay. 
Not far from the boat. No, right across the street. Now, for programming the R tag, that is something that can be put, that's a free software, we can download it on anybody's computer, and they can have access to computer. 
But when it comes to the engineering analysis, that will have to be scaled with the JA. And the octave seems to be maybe the bulk, I'll bulk, the project. good.